Hello, my dear! I am glad to see you again in this video, continuing my presentations about ultrasounds. Today, I want to share more details about your child's ultrasound and why this ultrasound, or these ultrasounds, which are so often recommended by every doctor, have a strong nocebo effect on your psyche. An ultrasound should not be a choice between reason and heart, because you can have, and you can, you can have another perspective on trusting your own child. We will talk about how our children choose us and how your child chose you to be their mother, and I will also address the topic of what happens with those brave souls who choose to come into a challenging experience. That is, we are talking about children with issues such as Down syndrome or all sorts of other diagnoses with which, let's say, that child is labeled. I will tell you about what exactly the ultrasound does and what effects it has on your psyche. Besides the nocebo effect, which also brings with it an excessive vulnerability for any pregnant mother. You know that when you are pregnant, you become much more sensitive. And we will also touch on the idea of human relationships, relationships that offer you more than cold diagnoses. And we will talk about choices. That is, your body and your child and many other choices you can make from a different place. Let’s see what it’s all about.

Ultrasound has a strong nocebo effect on the mother's psyche because, besides giving you a very cute image, a picture that I have seen most women post saying, "Oh, what a cute little face! Looks just like his <dad>," and besides these pictures, usually women leave the consultation in tears. I am glad if you have not experienced this, but I have feedback from thousands of women. And this ultrasound, especially if it is performed by a doctor who is interested in signing you up for as many as possible, steals your confidence in your child, steals your confidence that your body is capable of growing a child in your womb. How does it do that? Very simply. From the moment you are told there might be a problem, that is when the problems actually begin, because the woman starts to rely more on machines and not on her own instincts, which creates a very strong nocebo effect on her psyche and makes her much more sensitive, to cry, to worry, and to actually create a toxic, distrustful environment for the child.

Why does this happen? Because if you have watched my videos and even looked on YouTube, in all my appearances I talk about how the child in the womb absorbs all the mother's emotions. The more positive and confident the mother is, the better the environment the child will grow in, and not a toxic one. If the woman is afraid, from check-up to check-up, of finding out about another misfortune that might not even be true. And usually, that is how it turns out—not to be true until the end of the pregnancy. She actually creates a toxic environment of worry, of pure adrenaline, and the child will grow in this adrenaline for nine months, after which, in life, from childhood to adulthood and even as an adult, will create many adrenaline-filled situations. Why? To reproduce what was experienced for nine months in the mother's womb.

So, ask yourself: do you want a calm, confident, joyful, and lively child? Or do you want a fearful, anxious child who, because of the need experienced for nine months, will create many, let's say, dangerous experiences in life to reproduce the adrenaline with which they grew? I think everyone would want the first option, because yes, we all want good, healthy children, and so on. But it also depends on how we raise them. Ultrasound between reason and heart.

I just want to tell you that what you see is an image, but behind that image is a soul who comes into your family because they chose you specifically and really want to be with you. And here I am not exaggerating at all. And I want to ask you one thing: do we have the right to refuse them if they chose us? Out of seven billion women in this world, they chose you, mother. Why wouldn’t you want them? What would be the reasons for not accepting the child who chose you? What would be the reasoning for refusing a soul who chose you, mother? Because they don’t have blue eyes and aren’t blonde? Would that be a reason? No, I am exaggerating, of course. But if we look at it, we also came into this life with certain problems, illnesses, let’s say, deficiencies. And for that, did we not have the right to life? Think about it—if you came into a family that wanted or desired you. Many of us are accidents. And yet, we managed to get here. Would it have seemed fair to you if, when you arrived in your mother’s womb, she decided to give up on you? For various reasons—because you weren’t a boy, because you didn’t come at a good time, because you weren’t what was expected, or maybe because at 16 you might be sick. And yet, it was your chance at life. Why do we have the right to refuse or to keep just because we want to? Here lies the discrepancy between reason and heart.

Now I want to ask your heart: do you trust your child? Just think about how much you waited for the miracle in your life, only now not to be satisfied or not to trust the choice your child made. Yes, we are never sufficiently, let’s say, prepared to receive a child. Or maybe we are. Maybe infertility made us want it so much that we started to prepare ourselves. But if it happened, if this soul has come, why should we have to choose? What would be, let’s say, our right to keep or refuse a soul who chose us? That’s what it’s about. If you answered this question by saying yes, I want to choose what kind of child I have, then yes, you are justified in testing and running all sorts of analyses and maybe later deciding to abort, because it’s not what you wanted. But we have no guarantee that we can choose a child based on the criteria we want. Because yes, that’s not how one comes into this world.

And I have another question: do you accept your child in your womb? Because, just as you assume as a mother that you will be there even in moments when they may be sick in this life, you can accept them now, as they come, during pregnancy. Nothing gives us the right to choose what kind of child we want. Even if it’s nice to imagine, to make all sorts of pictures in our heads that it will be an extraordinary child, will have a certain profession, will be blonde with blue eyes. Or, I know, I keep repeating myself with the blonde and blue eyes, but really, even if they are missing a finger, do you think they are no longer your child? Do you think they didn’t choose you? Do you think they don’t deserve to live? It’s exactly the same thing. So, do you accept your child in your womb as they are, with all the things they chose to experience in this life? If yes, then let’s move on.

Nick Vujicic, or Vujicic—I don’t know how it’s pronounced—is that child who was not aborted by his mother. Here is Nick Vujicic with his four children, a, let’s say, “reject,” excuse my language, perfect, because he has no arms and no legs. He’s an influencer, because now we have all sorts of people who influence us for better or worse. There are brave souls who still choose to come into this world, even with these disabilities. To change the paradigm of our outdated, rigid, and unfair thinking. People who choose not to come perfect come to inspire us and change our old paradigms. That’s one example. And how many other such children exist and come? Surely, you have met at least once in your life another human being with disabilities. The only disability we could come into this world with is the lack of love. And sometimes I think that we, these “normal” people, with ten fingers on our hands, ten on our feet, supposedly normal, have this disability—not being able to love. Whereas a child with disabilities comes with boundless and unconditional love. They love, period. And they don’t judge, not as much as we, the “normal” and “perfect” ones, do.

So, my dear, please think very carefully. If you have a disability to love the child who chose you to be their mother because, I don’t know, they won’t have blonde hair, I don’t think so. You will love them anyway, because they are your child. So why do we keep judging? And... It’s a very sensitive subject, I know, but it’s worth exploring, because these topics influence our decisions. Very strangely.

And now, two children with Down syndrome. The other has ADHD. Who gives or takes away the right to life from these brave souls? Have you ever seen a motivational video with a person who has Down syndrome and who has managed to succeed in life? What luck they had, right? That they weren’t aborted. I understand it’s not the perfect life everyone wants, but if a child, that is, a brave soul, chose to come into this life with these disabilities and chose you, the parent, believe me, you also have some lessons to learn there. And before coming here, when your soul planned its existence, it assumed this experience, so you will be able to handle it, and it will be for your good and for your evolution. Because, in fact, that’s what matters. Our evolution. Learning the lessons we, let’s say, created for ourselves in this life. And they are just as lovable as we are. And they usually come with a love that shakes us and shows us how ridiculous we sometimes are when we simply think this way.

And now, the best question. Have you ever asked yourself why you get an ultrasound? Because most women go for ultrasounds as if they are going to take pictures. But no one really thinks about how much or how badly they might disrupt the creation process of that child. And now, why do you get an ultrasound? For what? To be sure? To be sure of what? Ultrasounds are only thirty percent accurate. Science has now recognized that only forty percent of diagnoses are true. It’s thirty, but let’s say forty percent, so it’s a little more than half-and-half. When you say, “Well, it’s fifty-fifty, either-or.” How can you go through something like this as an emotionally vulnerable being, as you are now, and expose yourself to these... It’s like an emotional sport. Sometimes it’s good, sometimes it’s not, then it’s good again. How can you cope with such a situation? Why would you want to subject yourself to that? If you can abort at six months because you were told your child might have a problem, okay, then I understand. But if you don’t want that and it’s not even up for discussion, then I don’t see the point of these ultrasounds, which are anyway done excessively in Romania.

What does ultrasound actually do to the mother’s psyche? Usually, it causes a lot of worry. That is, it usually worries and emotionally separates the child from the mother. Why? When a woman finds out her child might have a problem, she puts up a protective screen between herself and the child. Why? To protect herself and not get even more attached to the child, she interrupts this natural attachment she had until now, so she can make a decision more easily. This splits her in two, it’s like... you want to get rid of something that is yours. Or you want to get rid of something that is yours, actually. And this is where the split between mother and child begins. The child feels abandoned. The woman distances herself from her own child in the womb so as not to suffer even more. Ultrasound also steals the mother’s natural instincts of trust in the creation process and in her own body. Suddenly, she no longer trusts that the child knows what to do and that her body knows how to grow a baby in the womb. It makes her close off emotionally and not share the painful experience with other women. So, it’s something you go through alone. And it’s hell, because it’s impossible to separate yourself from what is growing inside you, but it’s the only way you can get through it without losing your mind.

So, rather than subject yourself to such a process, it’s better to do without, because you sit and think and weigh what is best for you. To constantly bombard yourself with the idea that sometimes the child is good, sometimes not, sometimes you keep them, sometimes you don’t, or you trust that they chose you and you receive them with confidence, no matter what. The woman starts to feel guilty for choices impossible for a human or a human heart to make. She will put enormous pressure on her psyche, become anxious, and hand over her own power and confidence to others. By the way, when you give away your power and confidence, the iron in your blood goes down the drain, meaning you will have clear iron deficiencies, because you give away your power, right? And, being uninformed, she exposes her baby to the risks of ultrasounds during pregnancy.

Please watch the other episodes I made about ultrasounds, because it’s a very complex and controversial subject and you need to have this information. A pregnant woman is very easily influenced because she is very vulnerable. Her protection towards her baby is immense, and just one word that the child might be in danger makes her accept any proposal, anything. Because that’s how we are, we protect our young. So, if you are told the child is in danger, even though many times it’s not true, you will accept anything. You will accept thousands of tests. And usually, this happens when a woman is already going through a pregnancy, at least in Romania. The second time, when she has another pregnancy, she might not make the same mistakes, because she realized she was deceived or realized the system pretty much lied to her with the idea that the child sometimes has something, sometimes nothing. And this emotional rollercoaster turns you upside down.

The Nocebo Effect refers to that deep feeling of distrust given to the mother through a worrying diagnosis or a negative opinion about the pregnancy or the fetus’s development. From those moments, stress hormones will form that will influence the baby and the entire pregnancy with negative states. So, instead of being happy and joyful that everything is fine, that she feels good, she will be stressed throughout the pregnancy. And now, what would be the alternative? My dear, human relationships and your need to be listened to, advised, and treated with patience, time, and respect matter most. Look for someone who won’t panic you for no reason. Look for someone who will give you the correct information. Here, you are already in the right place, because I have no financial interest to lie to you, to send you to dozens of check-ups to support a system that has long been proven to be, not entirely dishonest, but clearly biased. And when I say biased, it’s not that it’s on your side. It will clearly be biased, because the system is not on people’s side. The system is on the side of money. That’s what we’re talking about.

Reality has shown us that technology will never be able to replace natural feelings of love, attachment, trust, enthusiasm, and will never replace the joy that human closeness offers us. My dear, attach yourself to your child because they need to feel well received in this new family, because for them too it is a fantastic process to come into the unknown. Please, show them love. Show them that unconditional love, that it doesn’t matter how they come, that it doesn’t matter if it’s a boy or a girl, what matters is that they chose you and you receive them with all your love, and you both receive them with all your love. That’s what matters, because that’s why we are human. We have emotions, we have feelings, we need attachment, belonging, and... love. That’s all. That’s the recipe.

And I want to ask you one thing. Don’t forget, it’s your body and your baby. And your choices must be only yours. Because you decide what you do and what you don’t do in your pregnancy and with your child. So don’t let others make decisions for you, because that’s not how it should be done. I look forward to seeing you in the other videos about ultrasounds. Please, get informed because you might regret it if you don’t do it now, because after you make certain choices, things can no longer be reversed. Thank you.