Hello, my dear! I am glad to see you again at this course about ultrasounds. Ultrasounds in pregnancy, and today I will tell you more about the effects of ultrasounds on the baby and on the woman’s body. I will explain a bit about what ultrasounds are. We will go into some detail. We will discuss the history of ultrasounds, how they have been used, in which fields they have been used, and how this device ended up in hospitals. We will talk about the person who introduced these devices, which were previously used as sonar, radar, and other types of detectors. How did this device end up in hospitals? Afterwards, to help you understand what this is all about and how useful ultrasounds are, we will talk about tissue heating treatments that are still used today and are well known. Some of today’s weight loss treatments also use ultrasounds, and there are even ultrasound-based birth control treatments. So yes, hot topics about ultrasounds. I know that perhaps no one has told you these things. I have searched extensively for this information and it exists, but yes, it is not as accessible as the highly praised, highly profitable things. So let’s see how ultrasounds affect your baby and your body.

First, I want to explain what ultrasounds are. They are sound waves that cannot be perceived by the human ear and that produce mechanical vibrations in the medium through which they propagate. Here, in this image you can also see my mouse. These are, this is what ultrasounds look like, or sounds that cannot be perceived by the human ear, which up to twenty hertz are called infrasounds. Between twenty hertz and twenty thousand hertz, we can hear these sounds, and above twenty thousand hertz, these sounds can no longer be perceived by an adult human. But you will see that in the mother’s womb, the fetus hears these disturbances (clears throat) and is affected by the sound produced by the ultrasound. There are some animals that can perceive these ultrasounds, such as bats and dolphins. Dolphins, even when they make sounds, those are actually ultrasounds. That’s how they navigate and orient themselves in water, whales and dolphins.

What do these ultrasounds do? They cause a disturbance of the particles in that medium. What does a disturbance of the particles mean? It means they bring chaos to something very well defined. When we use ultrasounds in pregnancy, they cause a disturbance of the embryonic cell particles. So, when the embryo or fetus is ultrasonographed, a disturbance occurs in its embryonic cells. The vibration of the particles also causes other dysfunctions, such as heating, cavitation, and abnormalities in the natural development. Especially in pregnancy, these things are dangerous for, let’s say, the construction and development of an embryo, which at the beginning of pregnancy is as small as a grain of rice. So, when we disturb the alignment and arrangement of all the embryo’s cells, chaos can occur. The natural development no longer takes place, and we effectively disrupt the entire process of creation. By emitting these ultrasounds, which can be either pulsed or continuous, an image is created on a screen of the analyzed tissues. That is what we see when we are given that picture of the fetus or embryo, depending on its size.

A fetus is from about twelve or fourteen weeks onward, and an embryo is up to twelve or fourteen weeks after, uh... the ultrasound calculation. So, depending on how these ultrasounds are emitted, they generate a clearer or, let’s say, a more basic image. The higher the frequency, the stronger the ultrasounds and the more, let’s say, disturbances they cause to the natural state. So yes, I know, these are things that no one has told you, but they are in studies, medical studies, all kinds of studies, because they are very controversial. I want to show you now what ultrasound technology looked like and where and when it found its applicability in human medicine. This is what an ultrasound device looked like, and these ultrasound devices represented, let’s say, a new technology, new in the field of construction and in warfare, where they were first used. In human medicine, ultrasounds have only been used for about sixty years. That is why it is still considered a relatively new technology in medical imaging and has been very little tested. This is actually the problem. All these things were introduced, of course, because it was seen that there was a lot of profit, and so they were used without further study, or there are studies, but people do not have access to them and do not know about them, believing that a technology used on humans is sufficiently tested to see if it causes problems or not.

Submarines. That’s actually what they were used for in war, to detect exactly where enemy ships were in order to destroy them. That’s how ultrasounds were actually used, already in, I think, World War II. (clears throat) And what happened then. (phone notification rings and clears throat) Ha! So submarines used ultrasounds to detect the distance and exact location of ships to destroy them. And even in World War II, this practice surprised humanity when it was observed that many whales and dolphins, after such a period of war, washed up on shore and died. Why? Because these ultrasounds disrupted their language, with which they communicated and measured distance. And so, animals, mammals deeply disturbed by these ultrasounds, ended up stranded and dying. Because, well, until then there was no other device that could jam their language like that. Right? Because, if you listen to how a dolphin sounds or a... oh my goodness! I need to take some lecithin.

If you listen to how a dolphin sounds, you will see that it makes sounds similar to those ultrasounds emitted by the device. Bats use these ultrasounds to detect distance and other bodies, such as other animals, their prey, or food, or simply to orient themselves. Dolphins do the same. That’s how they manage to feed and communicate with each other. What the ultrasound does is measure distance underwater or in the air, using ultrasonic sound waves. Ultrasounds have always been used to detect defects in the metallurgical and plastics industries. Pipes were actually tested to see if they had holes or manufacturing defects. Since around 1930, especially in the ship and tank industry. So that’s what ultrasounds did. They would see where the sound was interrupted and did not pass through—so when it passes through metal, it passes uniformly. If there are defects and the metal was not cast properly, the ultrasound will stop and then you can tell if that pipe or metal body has a defect or not.

The sonar or radar—because radar is also based on ultrasounds—is the detector of metal defects. So to speak, sonar or radar is the predecessor of the ultrasound equipment in today’s hospitals. How do ultrasounds propagate? They propagate only through liquid, air, or solid materials. That’s why, when we have ultrasounds that pass through the human body, they pass through liquid. That’s why they propagate and that’s why they can create an image on that screen you see when you have an ultrasound.

Starting in 1940, ultrasounds entered hospitals and became diagnostic and imaging devices. It was very interesting how this device actually got into hospitals. There was a neurologist and psychiatrist from Austria, Dr. Karl Dussik, who was the first to publish images of tumors and abscesses using ultrasounds, but he could not convince the medical world with his publications of his hyperphonograph experiments. So, although this doctor was quite well known, a neurologist and psychiatrist, even though he published these experiments, calling them hyperphonograph records, he did not manage to convince the medical world to use them. Until then, we used X-rays, which are now banned because they cause cancer. So, this is a device to actually measure the size of the baby’s head. That’s what it looked like back then. Well, now they are packaged more nicely, but the exact same technology is used. After this Dr. Dussik from Austria, another professor appeared, who wasn’t even a doctor, Ian Donald, who performed the first ultrasound of a fetal head in 1958 and was, rightly so, met with much skepticism.

He was blamed by the medical world for his crazy inventor experiments. He was even nicknamed Mad Donald, so the person who actually introduced these imaging and diagnostic devices into the hospital was a professor called Mad Donald, who somehow managed to show the world that these experiments worked. But yes, ironically, all this skepticism and blame was forgotten because a window of profit was seen. And so ultrasounds entered hospitals and were mainly used as therapy for—and here’s the most interesting part—for their heating effect at the tissue level. So, when you put ultrasounds on a person’s abdomen or leg, the tissues would heat up. Thus, ultrasounds were used in regenerative and rehabilitation medicine for patients with rheumatoid arthritis in 1960. Here you can actually see Matt Donald, yes, Ian Donald in Glasgow in 1960, performing these tissue heating treatments in regenerative medicine and in the rehabilitation of patients with arthritis. So, since about 1966, ultrasounds had become a sort of universal panacea.

Although even today there are no scientific studies to attest to their long-term effectiveness. The first adverse effects on tissues had already appeared, but since business was booming, no one seemed interested in this aspect. Here you actually see a patient under a console like this for ultrasounds. Of course, they were not studied. Only the effects that were not quite okay were observed, and this tissue heating brought many adverse effects. That’s exactly what I want to tell you about, and that’s why I gave you that foray into the history of ultrasounds. So, these ultrasounds entered the medical scene without sufficient testing of adverse effects, because at that time, the evolution of patients over time was not monitored. So all patients with... rheumatic conditions were ultrasonographed, but no one, I mean, there was never any follow-up to see what happened to those patients, maybe in the short term they felt better by heating those tissues at the cellular level, but later on, we don’t know what happened to them, because yes, this aspect was simply not studied. It’s fantastic. To me, it seems like something out of a horror movie that we use with such confidence things that, theoretically, should have been tested and verified tens of thousands of times, not on us—we are not guinea pigs—and especially not on our children. And I want to sound a big alarm here. I want to draw your attention to the magic slimming devices, dear women, because this is about you. There are currently devices called all sorts of things, ultrasonic cavitation or sonic lift, which actually produce cavitation and heating at the cellular level. Why? Because ultrasounds are waves that cause mechanical vibrations in the treated tissues. These vibrations are like friction that, at some point, due to the very high temperatures generated by this friction, create gas bubbles that vibrate inside the tissues.

Then there is the phenomenon of cavitation, which I explain in another video, also about ultrasounds. There is that... that process of cavitation, which means that those gas bubbles produced by these frictions, yes, collapse in a very violent way, and this causes a reduction of the tissue and, let’s say, slimming. But it is not healthy slimming, because these tissues that actually collapse from the immense temperatures, yes, it’s like an implosion, like a collapse. That collapse releases enormous kinetic energy, combined with temperatures you can’t even imagine could happen in your body. They are impressive, over five thousand degrees Celsius. We don’t put our hand in forty-five degree hot water, and yet, with these ultrasounds, we heat tissues at the cellular level until they actually reach the process of cavitation and collapse, producing an implosion at five thousand degrees Celsius. I mean, what are we talking about? This is exactly the cavitation process that leads to that so-called magic slimming effect. And so we actually destroy tissues at the cellular level, without thinking about what consequences this style or method of slimming has.

So, be careful with this magic equipment. And here, if you do some research and want to think, okay, what happens in the tissue of an embryo or fetus when we do ultrasounds, it’s the same effect. Ultrasounds cause cavitation. So, exactly the heating to five thousand, over five thousand degrees Celsius, after which, from this temperature, those gas bubbles form, and the gas, at some point, causes the tissue to collapse. Why? Because there is another pressure that no one talks about. Pressure that rises to over five hundred bars from these gases released inside those bubbles, and these gases cause toxic changes at the level of the sonographed tissue. The shock wave at the moment of collapse will produce free radicals at a speed of five hundred meters per second, five hundred meters per second. Can you imagine what a fantastic impact! And these free radicals, which everyone tries to avoid, we produce when we do such magic slimming practices and when we sonograph our child. And these (emphasized) toxic chemical elements such as nitric acid, hydrogen peroxide, and other toxic chemical compounds will enter the bloodstream after that collapse.

This very violent implosion process can also cause mini-hemorrhages locally. So it is incredible what science tells us about what ultrasounds do in our bodies at the tissue level. And this is in an adult body. I can only imagine the havoc it causes when this is done to an embryo that is in the maximum process of development. So, here I also show you what happens when, let’s say, we choose an ultrasound treatment that cavitates, yes, that produces cavitation, when we apply it to our tissue. Here you see the skin, collagen, elastin, and here at the bottom, yes, the fatty tissue. So, why do we want to get rid of this fatty tissue? Before this procedure, the tissue containing the fat looks like this. The ultrasonography begins. The fat cells start to agitate, then they release a temperature of five thousand degrees. Bubbles form with these... toxic substances like nitric acid, hydrogen peroxide, and other chemical compounds, after which there is the implosion of these fat cells. After the implosion, you see, after the collapse, the fat layer thins. That’s exactly what happens.

Here you also see an experiment with pork fat. Here we have pork fat in that glass. Ultrasounds are applied. Uh, provident157. Here it actually shows you how the cavitation process dissolves the adipose layer. And they say that those fats, after they have been dissolved, yes, and after that implosion has occurred, will be metabolized by the body. But there are not enough studies. Everything is presented very nicely. But honestly, I would not have the courage to go and have such treatments done, not even for myself. Let alone, understanding what disasters it leaves in a baby’s body? And now we will talk about ultrasound as a method of contraception for men. Because yes, that’s what ultrasound does. One of the people who supports these methods of sterilizing the population is Bill Gates. You probably know him from the interesting field of computers. Yes, this man has no medical studies, but being a very influential and well-known person, he can afford to finance all sorts of things. He is especially interested in contraception, because he has publicly stated that there are too many people on the planet and so people need to be reduced.

And his method of contraception, in which he has invested a lot of money, is a method to sterilize men, and this can be done by irradiating the testicles for fifteen minutes. I have not managed to find out at what intensity, but I suspect normal equipment intensities, let’s say 3D or 4D or 5D, yes, there no one wants to see images, so probably 3D works as well. The idea is that after irradiating the testicles for fifteen minutes, the man becomes infertile for the next six months. Why? Because ultrasounds inactivate the sperm in the testicles, and this empirical method will be an assumed risk and a danger for any future offspring. Again, we do not know what impact this has on long-term health, after that man has tried to sterilize himself or has managed to sterilize his sperm. I can only tell you that currently, I believe half the world’s population is struggling with infertility, both men and women, especially with this new technology and especially with our chaotic and stressful lifestyle—that’s the cherry on top.

If on a sperm, which is tiny compared to an egg that must be penetrated and fertilized, if those sperm, for six months, when they are produced, will not be able to procreate, what happens to an embryo that is a bit bigger and is ultrasonographed from its very first weeks of existence? Yes, anyway, it’s a very controversial subject. I am glad you watched this episode because I have made several episodes about ultrasounds, because indeed there is a lot of science that is hidden from us, because (reclubirea udузыalei) not many people get to this information, because it must be searched for extensively, and I am not the only one who has looked for this information. There are hundreds of authors and scientists investigating these things and I am neither the first nor the last to warn about caution, yes, regarding the excesses that happen especially in countries like Romania, where women are called monthly or weekly for ultrasounds.

So it is incredible what is happening. So thank you for watching and I look forward to seeing you in my next video about ultrasounds, to find out even more about how you can avoid these ultrasounds without endangering, let’s say, the safety or supposed safety that these ultrasounds are promised to provide by the system that actually exploits this to the maximum. See you soon!