May your heart be well, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I would like to present to you now some general notions about ultrasound during pregnancy. I will mainly talk about what you do not know and could not have known, that ultrasound in pregnancy is not about cute pictures of your baby, because, indeed, there are certain risks and, of course, there is also a utility to these tests. But I also want to tell you about 2D, 3D, 4D, or HD ultrasounds. The dangers of the intensity of these 2D, 3D ultrasounds affect the baby in the womb, and I will show you the difference compared to twenty or thirty years ago in the intensity with which children are now scanned. I will also discuss a bit about the business behind these ultrasounds, especially in our country. I will explain what fetal morphology scans or morpho-fetal ultrasounds are, because no one tells you about this. And I will also tell you about the fact that there is no mandatory ultrasound. And precisely because these ultrasounds are not mandatory, we will also talk a bit about the nocebo effect that an ultrasound can have on a worried mother. As I said, ultrasound in pregnancy is not about cute pictures of the baby in the belly. 

First of all, if we needed to know the stages in which the baby develops and what it looks like, we probably would have had access to our belly through some windows or at least a glass belly, so we could see what is happening inside. You should know that your baby feels very disturbed when we investigate. And not because we think nothing can be heard during an ultrasound, because we do not perceive the ultrasounds. The idea is that ultrasounds are not only imperceptible to the human ear, but in the belly, in the womb, the amniotic fluid transmits the ultrasounds to the fetus and generates a lot of stress for it. So those cute pictures actually generate a lot of unnecessary stress. That is why, in America, they have been and are not recommended as long as there is no very well-founded medical reason for doing ultrasounds. So ultrasounds for pictures are strictly forbidden in America. That is why they are said to be done for entertainment and are not allowed or authorized for that purpose. And here, yes, we see how we, and I also thought the same thing. Oh, I could hardly wait to go for an ultrasound, to see the baby and know if he or she is well or not. If someone had told me, if all the parents in this world knew how many risks are involved for a baby in the womb, you should know they would not do so many ultrasounds just to see some images on a screen and to be led to believe that there is or isn’t a problem, or that there might be, or that a problem will develop.

Let’s talk a bit about the intensity of exposure to ultrasounds, which today reflects the accuracy of the images produced. The higher the exposure intensity, meaning the more milliwatts per cubic centimeter, the clearer the image becomes. So, the higher the intensity, the clearer the image. The problem is, however, that ultrasounds strongly disturb the baby in the womb during its development. So, my recommendation would be ultrasounds at the lowest possible intensity, 2D, yes? 3D anyway gives you a yellowish image, 4D gives you movement, and HD, well, that’s another craze. But honestly, we irradiate the baby a lot, who is strongly disturbed.

To help you understand what intensity means during a scan, I have chosen an image where the baby is actually shielding itself, precisely because these ultrasounds are heard and felt very strongly by the baby. I want to tell you that in the 1970s, scans were done at ninety-one milliwatts per cubic centimeter, and after twenty-one years, this intensity had already increased threefold, actually more than three times, about five times: seven hundred and twenty milliwatts per square centimeter. In 1993, the intensity had already increased eightfold. So in 1993, it had already increased eight times, and from 2010 until today, ultrasound machines measure between two thousand and five thousand milliwatts per square centimeter, which, compared to ninety-one in the 1970s, is extraordinarily high, yes? And Doppler machines, which are even more harmful, measure up to nine thousand eighty milliwatts per square centimeter. So the intensity is very high. And you will see that, depending on the intensity, we have the strongest disturbances. Indeed, in Romania, I have seen a great ease with which ultrasounds are performed. All the pictures show the woman smiling, the doctor smiling, but you should know that usually a woman leaves an ultrasound appointment with tears in her eyes. First of all, it is a very intense experience and, usually, for a monthly subscription, the doctor manages to convince her in just a few words to come again. Yes, in Romania, unfortunately, this is exaggerated, and I take responsibility for these words because I know very well what happens in the clinics. Scanning should be done according to serious medical criteria and not just because you are pregnant. The criterion that you are pregnant does not mean you have problems. I believe that over ninety percent of pregnant women do not have problems, but they leave with invented, suggested, promised, or threatened problems, yes? Because, yes, unfortunately, it is a business. And yes, the risk exposure— and it is not the woman who is exposed to risk, but the embryo. The fetus is exposed to risk. The risk exposure is higher the greater the intensity and the longer the duration. So, the longer and stronger the exposures, the greater the risk.

Now, what are fetal morphology scans? Fetal morphology scans are the longest ultrasounds. Twelve or thirteen years ago, there was only one fetal morphology scan. They had just started doing them, around twenty-two weeks, and it was only done then, between twenty-two, twenty-three, and twenty-four weeks. And I was really wondering why they only do it then? Because there was a chart in which at twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four weeks there were certain values, and when you went at twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four weeks to have your baby scanned, the baby was measured from head to toe, and these measurements were entered into that chart. That chart, again, might or might not correspond, because honestly, who is the base model and who exactly determines the centimeters and millimeters a child should grow at a certain age? Yes, here we are treated like little robots who must grow in a certain way and at a certain speed, otherwise we do not fit in and otherwise we get threatening diagnoses.

So what happens at a fetal morphology scan? Because most couples do not even know what a fetal morphology scan is. Now it has become a whole trend. Women no longer go for just one fetal morphology scan in the second trimester, but for three: one in the first trimester, the second in the second trimester, and the third in the third trimester. Even though there are no problems with the baby. This trend with morphology scans exists in Romania. I have not seen this trend in other countries, but here it works because, yes, a lot of fear is propagated. And then the woman wants to see what is going on. It does not help at all, because if a woman at twenty-four weeks thinks she wants to have an abortion—my goodness, what courage! I would not have the courage to decide, because if the chart does not come out exactly as it should, how could I decide such a thing? Unfortunately, morpho-fetal ultrasounds or fetal morphology scans are not at all short and to the point, but the exposure time nowadays is enormous. These fetal morphology scans can last between thirty and ninety minutes. It depends on how much time the doctor allocates, because they can spend an hour with the ultrasound on the mother’s belly and on the baby. And yes, of course, this influences the child’s health and development.

So what are morphology scans? Measuring all the baby’s bones, organs, all the soft or hard tissues, and entering them into a chart. And comparing. And from there, the diagnoses: that there might be a problem. Wonderful! And what can be done? Well, you can have an abortion. These are the options modern medicine offers you. This is regarding how useful these fetal morphology scans are. A morphology scan could easily be replaced with an ultrasound that lasts two minutes, because you are not interested in how long the bones are, how long the femur is, how long the thumb phalanx is. These aspects are really not important, yes? And especially regarding the soft tissues or organs. That is where the biggest problems occur. Studies show that we should protect organs from ultrasounds as much as possible. Under no circumstances should we investigate the brain or the stomach or kidneys, because soft tissues and organs are the most affected. Not that the skeletal system is not, because ultrasounds produce heat and heating of soft tissues and bones.

Anyway, to return, yes, indeed, ultrasounds cause a lot of problems and, unfortunately, no one tells you these things. So it is a big NO to fetal morphology scans, especially when most pregnancies are problem-free. But yes, if you happen to get a doctor who needs to sign you up for many morphology scans or many consultations, then yes, you might be unlucky. So, are there mandatory ultrasounds? No. There are no mandatory ultrasounds. However, you have every right to ask the doctor for details, and you can find out these details by asking what they want to find out with that ultrasound. Because you have every right to ask if they insist. What can you do after an ultrasound where you are given a diagnosis? Can you do anything or do you just worry unnecessarily? How accurate or reliable is the result? Is there any other option or method to find out what the doctor is interested in? For example, many say, “We want to see if the cord is around the neck.” Well, if it is, it might unwind. It might wrap again before birth. And that still does not mean a C-section is indicated. So, all these investigations do not necessarily mean something must be done. Or the size of the baby. Again, size does not matter. The length of the baby matters more, because size is distributed over length. So, again, something that is not necessarily important, especially when we want to choose a certain type of birth. So yes, there is no mandatory ultrasound. There is a lot of misinformation, a lot of ignorance, and because of this, many women do not know they have rights. To ask for explanations.

Romania is the exception to the rule. In any country in Europe or America, only a maximum of two, maybe three ultrasounds are done during a pregnancy. The first ultrasound is done after twelve to fourteen weeks. Why? Because they insist on leaving the baby alone until twelve to fourteen weeks of pregnancy, to develop in peace, because the disturbance is very high. The second is done at the end of the pregnancy, and the third is only done if there is a well-founded medical necessity. When are these well-founded medical necessities established? Well, if we observe an anomaly at the first ultrasound, if not, problems do not appear later, by some big mistake. Yes? If there are problems, the woman will realize, she will have symptoms during pregnancy, she will have problems and she will not go unexamined. But all these routine tests are mostly unnecessary and yes, they harm the fetus a lot. So, the woman who is expecting a baby is extremely emotional, extremely sensitive, because she is in a very fragile state, in which many decisions weigh heavily on her shoulders.

So, the woman is not just an object to be analyzed, tested, but a living being who has emotions and who should be protected precisely so she does not suffer, does not have illusions, does not worry. So we should keep the pregnant woman in a bubble, not as it happens nowadays. And then, what does ultrasound do to the mother’s psyche? Well, instead of deepening the bond with the baby, that natural, loving, trusting bond between mother and child, ultrasound actually creates a rupture because it generates a lot of anxiety and worry. It has a Nocebo effect, meaning it does a lot of harm, makes her worry, and steals the mother’s experience of joy during pregnancy. So, before subjecting yourself to these tests, which are mostly unnecessary, think about who benefits? And also think about this: when you get the impression that someone is deliberately profiting or stands to gain deliberately from these tests, please, follow the money. Let that be the criterion by which you realize who actually benefits the most.

The Nocebo effect, or, let’s say, how you can create dependence on the doctor or on technology during pregnancy. A pregnant woman can become very deeply saddened if she hears negative words about her body or her baby, especially if they come from people with a certain authority. That is why it is very important that we establish a bond with our baby not through doctors, through white coats, because you have a direct line to your child and you do not need a third person to come and explain how you should feel. Because you feel this bond. The baby is inside you, not outside, and does not need to be analyzed from the outside, when it is not necessary. I look forward to seeing you in other educational videos about pregnancy and birth. Thank you.