Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I am glad to see you at this course about ultrasound and its harmful effects. I will tell you more about ultrasound investigations and their usefulness. I will share a bit with you, because most of us do not actually know what we want to find out when we go for an ultrasound. Besides seeing our baby, besides being able to take pictures, we need to know what we want to investigate. After that, you will need to understand what your doctor wants to find out from these proposed ultrasounds. Then, it is very important to understand which are those possible investigations proposed by the doctor and what alternative options you might have to do something else or try something else. We will also talk about adverse effects. Yes, you heard right, there are adverse effects. Unfortunately, very few doctors have the courage to talk about this. Most do not know and have not explored this subject, but there are adverse effects that I will discuss at length in this course. There are adverse effects of ultrasound on the fetus: heating, cavitation, acoustics, streaming, and biostress. So you will understand more after we go through this course together.

My dear, have you ever wondered why you do an ultrasound when you find out you are pregnant? Have you wondered what you actually want to find out at the moment when, somehow, there is this tacit thing, yes, that all pregnant women rush to do an ultrasound after the test that confirms the two lines? That is, the baby is coming. And I have another question for you, and I know you probably do not have the answer: why does the doctor want an ultrasound? To start answering these two or actually three questions: why do we do the ultrasound? It is more of a social convention, a trend that has indeed developed in the last, let's say, fifteen years. I do not dispute that ultrasound has its usefulness. That is not my role, but I just want to make you more aware of the risks you take or do not take out of ignorance or lack of knowledge.

So, I do not dispute that ultrasounds are not good. It is a good idea for investigation, but you need to see a bit how far you want to go and what you actually want to find out. And there is one more thing. In Romania, we have a lot of ultrasounds, too many ultrasounds done during a pregnancy, and this alarm signal has been raised by many doctors who are responsible, because, in fact, the effects of these ultrasounds on the fetus have never been studied enough. I am not saying that ultrasounds are not good. I am just saying that you need to be careful and you need to know what you are taking on regarding the health and harmonious development of the baby in your womb. Most women, when they go for ultrasounds, want to find out if the baby is okay. The idea is as follows: for nine months, while our baby grows in the womb, we can only assume that the baby is developing perfectly. Now, nothing in life is certain. Not even us, who can get checked ten times a year, yes, to know if we are okay, will find out at some point if something is not right or not on track through pain or other symptoms.

But all these things do not necessarily help you to stress yourself and create inner conflicts, especially during pregnancy, yes, regarding the care you have for this baby. Usually, the ultrasound only has the alternative: terminate the pregnancy or keep it. And these alternatives do not seem like real alternatives for a woman who caresses her belly and is already connected with her baby in the womb. So, what do you want to find out? Do you want to find out if you need to have an abortion? Because that is what it is about. I know it is a tough question, but that is what it is about. If you truly know you can carry this, let's say, pregnancy to term, then you actually accept the baby you have received, the baby you have chosen to be a mother to. So what do you really want to find out? Do you want to worry unnecessarily? Because there are hundreds, thousands of women who worried for nothing and the baby was fine at birth. But the stress she went through during those nine months of waiting was at its peak, and stress greatly influences the health and development of the baby.

Now, okay, we know what we want to find out, we want to know that everything is fine. The problem is that all these investigations are not one hundred percent accurate. The margin of error for an ultrasound can be up to seventy percent, so only thirty percent of what you get there is certain. Read the statistics, find out more. Do not take the first opinion you receive as absolute truth. Always ask for more opinions, but do not start with the idea that something must be wrong with your pregnancy, because from the start you are already self-sabotaging.

And now, why does the doctor want an ultrasound? Especially in Romania, doctors want ultrasounds because it is convenient. It is an action they can repeat many times during your pregnancy, and if they are business-minded, they might call you even twice a week, or once a week, or once a month, or twice a month. It depends on how stressed you are, how much you ask for it, or how versatile they are in making you feel you must have a problem, because everyone has problems. So it is clear that here there are two options: either you find an honest doctor who does not necessarily want to get rich from weekly consultations, or, indeed, you will fall, as most women do, into the trap of over-investigation.

Now let’s see what investigations your doctor might propose. They will want to find out about your pregnancy with this ultrasound: the probable date of conception. What does this probable date of conception mean? The day you conceived this baby who is coming into your family. Now, I have experienced it myself and I have many examples where I knew the date of conception, but the ultrasound showed something completely different. So everything is, let’s say, about guessing, about following some statistics, because, you see, we are not robots. A woman is not like a little robot who has her cycle every twenty-eight days, ovulates every twenty-eight days.

So we are not standard, but these measurements are made according to some standards, so we do not fit those standards, and hence the discrepancy with the probable date of conception. And by the way, even if you knew the probable date of conception, you still could not guess or calculate the day your child will be born. Because there is no rule, even if you knew the date of conception, when the baby will be born. Why? Human gestation lasts between two hundred eighty-seven and three hundred days. So, again, we see that it is a process we cannot control, and the baby will come when it wants and when it is ready to come, not when we calculate with empirical or very exact methods, because pregnancy is not mathematics, it is not a calculation, it is not a rule, there is nothing mathematical here.

The probable due date, which you will hear about in many forms, is the date your baby is supposed to come out. In my opinion, it is a mistake to believe that the baby is born when you calculate, but the baby will be born on the day it decides it is right to be born. Mainly, to get rid of the obsession with the due date, there is no expiration date. The child does not expire in the womb. It is not like the yogurt in the fridge, which expires on the twenty-fifth of the month, so we do not have a product that expires in the womb. The child decides when to come, it initiates the birth. So we do not necessarily need this information, because as long as we more or less track our cycle, our sexual activity, we know roughly when conception happened or we can know roughly when we got pregnant.

So, these investigations will give you a probable due date, but they will not give you the real date when the child will choose to be born. The probable due date calculated by ultrasound will put you under additional stress, will create false expectations, will create stress like “Oh no! The baby hasn’t come and the due date has passed.” The probable due date in Romania, in some areas, is even calculated incorrectly. Why? Because there are indeed areas in Romania where you are told you will give birth without being told how many weeks of gestation have been calculated. And I know cases like this where, in certain counties in Romania, you are told the baby will be born even a month earlier, because they calculate the due date not at forty weeks, as is generally accepted worldwide, but in Baia Mare, yes, it is a special case there, all the doctors agree on this and all do the same thing. They give you the due date at thirty-eight weeks, but you, not knowing, will not count the weeks from when you got pregnant or from when you found out the baby is coming and you will not know that, in fact, they told you even a month earlier.

To understand a bit about the idea of the due date, worldwide, women who have their first baby, who give birth to their first baby, the probable due date is forty-one weeks and three days. So, much later even than the generally accepted forty weeks. So the first child appears at about forty-one weeks and three days from the moment the pregnancy was calculated by ultrasound. And now there is another discussion. When the ultrasound calculates the month or week of birth, it actually calculates from your last period, when you were certainly not pregnant because you had your period... So the doctor will always ask you when your last period was? Tell me the day your last period started and if you wrote it down, you will tell them. They will calculate about half, yes, about halfway after your period comes ovulation and approximately then the gestational age is calculated by ultrasound, let’s say.

In fact, the counting of weeks, that’s why it is no longer nine months, starts from the first day of your last period. Which is not correct. Because the baby in your womb is not that age, because it did not even exist when you had your last period. The baby probably appeared two or three weeks later or ten days. You see, there is no rule and I have had many cases where the baby came much earlier, not at ovulation or not when we thought we had ovulation. I know hundreds of cases of babies who came while using an IUD, on the pill, on the morning-after pill, with a condom, all types of contraception, and still, the child came, or with infertility. And this is a very interesting subject, because even diagnosed with infertility, women still get pregnant. And yes, it is a miracle. Very well.

Anyway, our body is a miracle and, depending on our inner conflicts, yes, we can hormonally influence our fertility or infertility. So do not tie yourself to the due date. It is an indicative date. This date might be accurate. This date might be much earlier. Usually, compared to what the doctor told you. That is, if you are not in Bacău county, not Bacău, Baia Mare, you can add another ten days to what you were told. Why forty-one weeks and three days, that is about the margin, yes, at which women who give birth to their first child give birth. So first child, forty-one weeks and three days worldwide. The second child comes a bit earlier, at forty weeks and three days. So there, if you are at the second, it matches what you were told.

Now, if we trust the mathematical calculations that apply to everyone the same, although we are so different, think that there are women who have a twenty-three-day cycle and not twenty-eight, as the ultrasound calculates. There are women who have irregular cycles and have their period at thirty, thirty-three, or thirty-five days, so we do not fit any rule. Yes, the rule would be twenty-eight, but, well, not many of us have that clockwork cycle. Another investigation proposed by the doctor is their request to find out how the placenta is positioned. Now—first of all, this investigation is not done at the beginning of pregnancy, because at the beginning the placenta is very low, let’s say. Because the uterus is still small, has not grown, the baby has not developed. I will show you during the course exactly how the placenta is, in which area of the uterus, where it develops, how it nourishes the baby, because the placenta is the one that takes care of your baby. I will tell you all these things, but information about the placenta and its position is more important to know if you have had a C-section. That means a scarred uterus. That is, there is a scar on the uterus after the thirty-fourth week of pregnancy, because then we can consider the position of the placenta.

But I want to tell you one thing: as long as you have not had bleeding during pregnancy, especially after the twelfth week, if you have not had pain, if you have not had other discomforts during pregnancy, you have a low-risk pregnancy. The risk that you have a placenta that is not well positioned is very low. Of course, even the position of the placenta can be based on unresolved emotional conflicts. I know it sounds strange, but practice shows that the more emotional conflicts we have, the more we can actually influence both the pregnancy and the baby. So, all you have to do is stay calm and if you really had a scar on your uterus and you have given birth by C-section before and now you want to give birth naturally, it is absolutely OK to do a short ultrasound after week thirty-four, so your doctor can see where the placenta is located.

Good. I will teach you something: how you can figure out where your placenta is during pregnancy? Where is that organ that nourishes your baby? And by the way, which the baby never kicks with their feet or hands, because you already know that the baby moves its hands, moves its feet, does daily training because it needs those movements for muscle development. But it never kicks that organ that feeds and keeps it alive. So, very simply, pay attention to where the baby never kicks. Usually, the placenta is positioned somewhere to the side, up, or above, or somehow to the side, more towards the back. That is where the placenta is. So, pay attention to where the baby never kicks. And it’s very simple. That’s exactly where the placenta is. Those of you who have not had a C-section before, you have no reason to worry about the position of the placenta.

Good. Let’s see what other possible investigations your doctor might propose. They will tell you they want to find out information about the baby’s development. They want to tell you how big it is. They want to tell you about the gestational sac. At this gestational age, usually, this is at the first, let’s say, appointment with the doctor, usually when we find out we are pregnant, the baby is not even the size of a grain of rice. So, if we do not have a baby the size of a grain of rice, what do you actually want to see? OK, the baby’s heartbeat again will not be seen until after the ultrasound age of seven or eight weeks. Sometimes it starts earlier, sometimes a bit later. I know many cases where women were scared and were advised to have an abortion, but they did not have the strength and did not take that abortion pill. And two or three weeks later, the baby was fine in the womb. How is that? Painful.

So you want information about the baby’s development? My dear, if you were supposed to know what the baby is doing in your womb, surely we would have had glass bellies with a door, a window, a magnifying glass, something, so we could see inside and observe how the baby develops. But it seems we were not endowed with glass bellies, so it is not important for us to participate in any way in this development process. Our only contribution, which is the most important, is our attitude and, let’s say, our psyche and emotions, which can enormously influence exactly the development and peace that the child needs to develop properly, harmoniously.

So, the calmer the mother, the more the baby develops exactly as it should. The more agitated the mother, the more the baby experiences stress. And we already know that stress, of course, has negative influences on the development of organs, the body, and so on. And now, good.

Information about the organs of the baby in the womb. Oh! Think about it this way: if we had to investigate at every moment, in fact, the development of this child from, as they say, the size of a grain of rice until it is ready for delivery, at about nine months... We would need some tables, yes, with different children, but we use tables with empirical or generalized values, and again we get into the issue: are we robots or are we actually different? We are different. We cannot have the same children, the same weight, the same development rate. The child does not grow on a straight axis, from minimum to maximum, but grows on a sinusoidal axis. Sometimes there is a growth spurt, sometimes it regresses, sometimes it stops, sometimes it just stays still. And we investigate exactly these stages without actually knowing what stage the child is in.

If, for example, I catch the child in a stagnation, because there was a growth spurt, because there are these growth spurts, and I get worried because the child does not have the weight that the table in the medical book says. Well, from that moment, what do I do? I create stress, I create fear, I create anxiety. And exactly this stress influences the harmonious development of the child. So what do I do? I self-sabotage.

And then, a human body in the process of creation cannot be subjected to comparison, because we have nothing to compare it to, because we are not comparable. If we were comparable, we would have the same appearance, the same height, the same weight, the same life, the same emotions, the same psyche, the same perceptions, which is impossible. You cannot have the same perceptions. Look how different we are. That is why, because we are so different, we cannot be put into a size chart. We are not clothes. Even clothes do not fit everyone, even if they are labeled S, M, or L, they still do not fit.

So, how does this information help me? Well, it might create more stress than confidence and, let’s say, that “everything is actually fine” feeling. Because my most important connection with this baby is the inner connection I have. That trust that everything is fine. Yes, I am not saying not to investigate at all, but I want to show you that most investigations create more stress and more problems than advantages.

Let’s see what else the doctor might want to know. They will want to know information about the baby’s sex. Good. Why? Does it matter to the doctor? Does it matter to you? Would you like it to be a boy or would you prefer a girl? Think about it a bit... If you, too, have not suffered greatly because your mother, or maybe not your mother, but your father, or if not your father, someone important in your family, a grandparent, an authoritative grandmother, wanted you to be a different sex than you were. How many of us, we women, how many of us have been stigmatized because we were not boys? I am an example, yes? My mother told me all my life that it would have been better if I were a boy, so I would not suffer so much. Or, how many of us had to be “dad’s boy”? And we did all sorts of things to play that role, even though we were girls.

So, think about where this preference comes from that you place on a child who already knows what sex they will have, because they chose this sex, because it serves them best for the destiny they have chosen in this life—a destiny as a woman or a destiny as a man. Who are we to wish otherwise? Because we, too, came as we were meant to. And yes, we suffered when our parents or grandparents or those who raised us wanted us to be different than we were. So, does it really matter if it’s a boy or a girl? Or can you accept that, come what may, I am waiting for you, as long as you chose me to be your mother, I am honored to be your mother.

When you change your perspective, you will realize that maybe those wishes we had, we have. And yes, they are not to be condemned. They are actually received because of the suffering they caused our parents, us, because we were not adequate, yes? So it really does not matter if it’s a boy or a girl. What matters is that it is happening and that it is coming.

The doctor will also tell you that they want to know information about the baby’s umbilical cord. First of all, this is a section of the umbilical cord where we see the vein and only one artery. Here we have the umbilical cord again. Here we see the blood flow, yes? Here you will be told yes, we need to see. Good, and if we see, what? Are we able to do anything? That is, are we able to give the baby in the womb another artery in the umbilical cord if it did not form it itself? Yes, and I know thousands of children who were born not with one vein and two arteries, but with one vein and one artery in the umbilical cord.

So, why should we worry? Can we do anything? No. If we cannot do anything and everything is fine anyway, why do we do this investigation? To sit and tremble that something might happen? The more we create a state of stress, the more the child cannot develop, because it needs a certain environment to develop. And this is very important. You are the environment in which the child in the womb develops. The mother is the environment. The mother’s relationship with her partner creates the environment. So you are the environment for this child in which they must develop in the most harmonious way. Create harmony so they can develop. Yes, and there are children who are born with only one vein and one artery. And nothing happened. They are perfectly normal.

Good. The doctor will want to tell you that they need to know about, need to know information about the appearance and size of the baby in the womb. Again, you can say, doctor, but this is inconclusive. The child will grow as much as it needs to grow, and because they somehow threaten the woman with this, that if it grows more than it should, it will not come out. None have ever gotten stuck, none have stayed there, and all have been born somehow. The idea is that this fear is much induced and based on the idea of “let’s do a C-section and I’ll save you from natural birth and we’ll take it out because it will be big.” You should know that the baby adapts to the mother’s pelvis. No one implanted it for you, it is from your DNA, it is from your genetics. You will not create a monster that cannot come out the way it came in. So it really does not matter how big or small the baby is, yes? Here, again, when the baby is too small, there are also emotional conflicts at the root related to feeding, yes, the baby’s growth, safety, the world it is coming into, the perception we have of pregnancy.

There are many aspects we need to discuss in the practical part of healing your own birth, to discover where the conflicts that might influence your baby’s development were created. Again, the baby’s weight. You should know it is inconclusive how big it will be, because the ultrasound, first of all, has a margin of error of up to plus or minus seven hundred grams. That means the doctor can tell you that you will have a baby of three kilograms or three and a half kilograms, let’s say. Or they will tell you it will be four kilos two hundred and the baby will be only three and a half kilos. So this plus or minus, I have so many examples, I think I have never seen a woman or very rarely have I seen women who had a diagnosis like the baby weighs so many grams and it was so. So, most had discrepancies. I even had examples where women chose to give birth at home, in another country, of course, accompanied by a midwife, with everything needed, and not caring or not being interested in how big the baby was, they were surprised to give birth at home to a perfectly healthy baby who weighed four kilos seven hundred.

After they put it on the scale, they were amazed and realized that, wow, if I had known, maybe I would not have had the courage to give birth at home. The idea is that the baby’s weight does not matter, what matters is the mother’s relaxation, because we can give birth to any kind of baby. And now, it is not harder to give birth to a baby of four kilos seven hundred. It is not harder to give birth to a baby of three kilos five hundred or easier. The idea is the same. The most, let’s say, intense part of a birth is the birth of the head, after which the body slides out fantastically fast. Have you ever seen them come out with a big head? (laughs) Have you ever seen the head swell? The weight is not in the head. So the hard part is not giving birth to a heavier baby compared to others who, let’s say, are three and a half kilos. No, the hard part is actually the birth of the head and the adaptation of the pelvis to this effort. But this is perfectly achievable, because our body was built for this.

What I could tell you is that what matters more is how many centimeters the baby is, because, let’s say, fifty centimeters is about the average, let’s say, accepted worldwide. So about fifty centimeters is the average length of a baby. Now I want to ask you something: if we give birth to a baby of four kilos seven hundred, the other might be sixty centimeters. And then sixty centimeters is a length over which those four kilos seven hundred are distributed. The baby does not come with a bigger head, but probably with a heavier body. Is it the body that is hard to deliver or the head? The head, as I said. So, here we also demystify this thing with “oh my, the baby weighs too much and we cannot get it out.”

OK, the doctor might also come up with the idea that we need to see how the baby is positioned, if you want to give birth naturally. The baby’s position is inconclusive. As long as the mother resolves her fears, anxieties, blockages she has accumulated during pregnancy or in life, from others’ stories, from her own birth, from what she has heard, from what she has seen, the birth position is inconclusive, because the baby can be born head first, as most are. Or the baby can be born in breech position. So we really do not need to investigate and get stuck on this. Just like that, in a minute, you can figure out yourself how the baby is positioned. You should know that before ultrasound, doctors knew how to palpate the mother’s belly, and women observed themselves more and could even determine themselves what position the baby was in. It is very simple. You can determine the baby’s position by observing yourself. Where the baby kicks hard, that is where the feet are, and where it tickles, that is where the hands are.

So, if it tickles at the bottom, it is clear the hands are down, and the baby is turned for birth, with the head down and kicking vigorously at the top of the belly. It is clear, you can observe this anytime. The idea is not to worry, because not all babies turn until after thirty-five weeks. Then we can say the baby is positioning for birth. And yes, there are babies who are born in breech position, feet first. Maybe you were one of them, one of those babies. There is nothing wrong, in Romania, indeed, you will not find many maternity hospitals that support breech birth, but of course there are doctors who support this. And even with twins, one of them can be born feet first. The idea is to know how to assist a breech birth, which is not a philosophy, but if they do not know, well, they do not.

So the position is not very important. What is important is for you, as a mother, to be prepared for any kind of birth. And now, what other possible investigations might your doctor propose? They will tell you they want to know about nuchal cords, that is, where the baby has the umbilical cord wrapped. Usually, it can be wrapped around the neck, around the hands, around the pelvis, around the feet. But all these nuchal cords are inconclusive, because they are not indications for C-section. Most children, I would say eighty-five percent, are born with a nuchal cord. Double, triple, four times, five times, it does not matter. There are natural births with babies born with a nuchal cord. The only thing is that when the head comes out, the umbilical cord is unwrapped and there is no problem for the birth to continue in a safe way. So.

Another myth to debunk, yes? We also have here what doctors want to know or what they will tell you they want to know: information about the appearance and size of the baby in the womb. Again, it really does not matter how big the head is, because you will see in—I have another lesson about the baby’s adaptation to the mother’s pelvis, where I will explain that the head circumference changes when the head slides into the mother’s pelvis before birth. So the circumference changes, it decreases, so measuring the size of the baby’s head in the womb is not conclusive. That is not how it will be born. So do not be scared by all these investigations and find out what your rights actually are.

After that, the baby will not want, the doctor will want to know information about the fetal heartbeats, that is, how your baby’s heart is beating. Now, surprise! The heartbeats can be listened to with a fetoscope, which, of course, does not disturb or interfere with the baby in the womb. And this is the most important aspect in these investigations, which have become over-investigations and cause a lot of stress. Do you want to hear the heartbeat? Get a fetoscope or go to a midwife who can measure the fetal heartbeats. Just to hear yourself that everything is fine. Anyway, the baby wants to be born so much that it will create exactly what it needs, the body it needs. And please, trust, because the baby also trusted when it chose you as a mother, it chose you, it did not doubt you, it did not doubt, let’s say, your medical history or your emotional history. The baby did not worry as much as you do now. So it went on trust. Let’s go on trust too.

Again, an over-investigation of pregnancy is wanting to know information about the organs of the baby in the womb. All these over-investigations, like, look, one kidney is bigger, oh no, one kidney is smaller. Look, the heart is not yet developed as it should be. Oh no, there is that hole. Well, yes, all these things will change by the time the baby is born. So it is normal for both organs not to be developed at the same time. Likewise, it is normal for some things to happen and for a hole in the heart to close after birth. Look, my father is seventy-six years old and has a hole in his heart and the doctors shrugged and discovered it at about sixty-something years old and said yes, it must be genetic. So yes, there are people who live and never know all their life that they have a hole in their heart that did not close at birth. And look, no one died, neither from fear nor from stress.

So all this information, which is not conclusive anyway, because, as I said, we are analyzing organs that are still developing. I am telling you logically what happens. So all this information, these over-investigations, induce fear in the mother and greatly disturb the development of the baby in the womb, because they create stress. These, let’s say, discrepancies with those tables in books are usually resolved by themselves by the end of pregnancy. And anyway, even if it is observed that one kidney is bigger and one is smaller, there is no intervention. That is, there is no modern medicine that can inflate the left kidney, which is smaller than the right kidney. No. We wait, observe the process, and after birth, intervene if it is possible to intervene.

So not all pregnancies are high risk, not all babies have problems, yes? Because that is not what it is about. I am absolutely convinced that 95% of pregnancies are low risk, but because of over-medicalization, women are made to believe they have a problem. And usually it is a very unfair thing, because we realize that this over-investigation of pregnancy only has financial benefits, and they are not the mother’s benefits, they are the benefits of the system that makes money off a pregnant woman. Yes, unfortunately...

And now the hardest explanations come, because now you will actually find out what happens and what those clinical studies attest, that ultrasounds or sonograms have adverse effects. The ultrasounds that are placed on the mother’s belly when she investigates her fetus in the womb cause a sudden heating of more than five degrees Celsius above the allowed limit of soft tissues and bones in the baby in the womb. What does five degrees Celsius above the allowed limit mean? I did not find here, but... ummm, I did not find anywhere what that allowed limit is. So five degrees, let’s say the limit would be thirty-seven degrees, that is, as much as we should not have a fever, means to reach up to...

(two-second pause adjusting the camera) Let’s say eighty-six to eighty-nine degrees Fahrenheit, because that’s how hot the baby’s organs and bones get, depending on the intensity of the ultrasound irradiation. This is a thermal effect that happens in just a few minutes. It’s as if you’re putting the child in an oven. And you’re not putting them in the oven to brown, but rather, from the inside out, they start to burn. The problem is that this sudden heating affects the developing brain, which can cause many neurological problems... (three-second pause) I want to read you all these problems. I know they’re harsh and hard to swallow and accept, but I have to tell you, because they exist and have been studied, but are not, let’s say, displayed anywhere. And those who don’t talk about them either probably don’t know or probably don’t want to say. So, this sudden heating up to eighty-nine degrees can cause structural changes in cells at the macromolecular level, which persist across generations. So... when your cell structure changes, right when you’re in full development, this remains as a problem and persists across generations. It’s not that someone will burn you in future generations. No, some natural processes at the macromolecular level are altered. There’s nothing we can do afterwards to fix it.

Cell membranes can become altered, which leads to a kind of cellular suicide—cellular apoptosis. In fewer words, this means DNA damage. Whew! Yes, it’s tough. This causes growth retardation in bone structure with presumed bone pain, and affects the formation of the small intestine. This comes from clinical studies, yes? Only ten minutes of ultrasound during pregnancy can affect motor and learning abilities in adolescence, because it neurologically influences the brain. It can cause abnormal neuronal migration leading to autism and dyslexia, and can destroy chorionic villi. That means—chorionic villi means the formation of placental abnormalities, because those are the chorionic villi.

The placenta is what nourishes your baby for nine months. It’s not what you eat that goes directly to the baby’s stomach, but what the placenta takes, it brings and nourishes the baby. So, this sudden heating of over nine degrees Fahrenheit is not brief, like “oh, I’ll just do ten minutes.” It is brief, but it can leave lifelong sequelae. So, think very carefully about why you’re doing these investigations and why you’d want to expose your child to these risks, yes? Because there are risks.

Again, clinical studies show the following adverse effects of ultrasounds. There is another phenomenon, not just heating. It’s called cavitation. To explain better, the pressure that is created, uh, creates... (two-second pause) some waves—actually, no. These ultrasonic waves, as they’re called, create a pressure that, from this pressure... (two-second pause) a gas bubble forms. This gas bubble grows until inside it an enormous temperature is released, up to nine hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Yes, I know, it sounds strange, but that’s what happens, and inside this bubble, at nine hundred degrees Fahrenheit, chemical mutations occur, because there are some chemicals inside... (two-second pause) that release free radicals and turn into toxic substances, which will then be found in the amniotic fluid that the baby ingests during pregnancy.

Not only in the amniotic fluid. It will spread and be everywhere in the body. And when the pressure is high enough, these gas bubbles, due to chemical mutations, free radicals, and the enormous temperature, they cause an implosion. Here you see the temperature of nine hundred degrees, the pressure of one hundred atmospheres, and from this pressure, the jet of liquid that can be propagated is one thousand feet per second. So, the implosion and collapse—because it’s actually a collapse, yes?—the collapse of these gas bubbles will create violent shock waves. These violent shock waves cause collateral stresses in the body; that is, when we do an ultrasound, we don’t feel these things, but they happen. The body feels them, uh, and this, uh, this happens at the cellular level, uh, through this implosion, toroidal vortices are created in the tissues.

Look here. So, unfortunately, these are not my inventions. I’m sorry to give you this news, but please, keep these things in mind next time you have an ultrasound that lasts more than two or three minutes. Because you don’t need it. There are so many risks you’re exposing that developing baby to that it’s not worth it. To find out what? That supposedly everything is fine, or to get a diagnosis that is anyway seventy percent wrong, just to create another one thousand four hundred issues that you’ll only find out about maybe someday, because no one will say, yes, it’s because of this. Because it’s not really known.

The phenomenon of cavitation. Exactly what I told you earlier about the implosion of those gas bubbles and, uh, the creation of toroidal vortices causes contractions and spasms at the muscular level. Think about the fact that this baby is just developing their muscular system. It severely affects thyroid functions. It causes growth retardation during pregnancy. Many children are diagnosed with growth retardation during pregnancy. Now you can understand why, from so many ultrasounds and so much interference. It creates immunological problems that we don’t see now. But later, when the child is always sick, yes, you can see them, but you can’t, let’s say, you can’t take this statement to someone because they’ll say you’re crazy, right?

It creates hematological problems at the blood level. It creates genetic problems at the transgenerational level, because it causes changes at the cellular level. It creates behavioral problems later in life, so on all levels these things will influence your child’s life. It causes changes at the chemical and biomacromolecular level. An acid is formed called nitric acid hydrogen peroxide. Because of that high temperature of over nine hundred degrees Fahrenheit, which creates biocellular stress. And one more thing—it affects the nervous system because ultrasounds destroy myelin. Myelin is that protective layer that wraps and protects nerves. So, we cause these things exactly when the child should be developing them. So, we massively disrupt, uh, this process of creation.

And now, besides all these phenomena—heating, cavitation—there are also shocking acoustic phenomena that terrify the fetus. This child, when in the womb, is in amniotic fluid. So, even the ears are somehow filled with that amniotic fluid, and thus sounds are very muffled. So, babies, after birth, are shocked that things sound much louder than in the womb. The problem is that ultrasounds produce acoustics in the womb, reaching noise levels of up to eighty-four decibels. I know you don’t know what eighty-four decibels means, that’s why I put that alarm clock. Or, to give you an idea, eighty-four decibels is like a subway entering the station. So, it’s not just a rumble, it wakes you from any deep sleep, yes, and it terrifies you. Think that the fetus in your womb has no way of experiencing such sonic shocks.

So, acoustically, from an acoustic point of view, the child is shocked and terrified by what they hear when the ultrasound is placed on the mother’s belly. Doppler does not cause as much noise to scare, but Doppler has another problem. It heats up the tissues and bones even more. Why? Because it has a higher intensity than a simple ultrasound. But I’ll talk about that in another slide. So, all these acoustic shocks affect sensory systems, such as the brain, eyes, and ears, and the fright, in fact, after the shock, has negative neurological effects on the fetus, who no longer feels safe in the mother’s womb. This idea of safety, of the womb, is sacred. If we don’t feel safe in the mother’s womb, we will live our whole lives with a fear that the world is bad and that something bad will happen at some point. And you should know that many of these insecurities in the womb later turn into autism, ADHD, and other syndromes, yes, which are inexplicable for allopathic medicine.

And we have yet another phenomenon—the streaming phenomenon. Streaming or the continuous flow of ultrasounds, which the Doppler device does. This is the Doppler you see in the image above. You see my mouse and the vaginal ultrasound, which is also very intrusive, because usually the vaginal ultrasound is used especially in the first weeks, when you do the first investigations, because the one on the belly can hardly see anything, since the baby is very, very small. So, this streaming, which happens when we turn on the ultrasound in a continuous flow, affects the cellular surface. I was telling you about nerve myelination, yes? It actually cuts it and thus affects the permeability quality of the cell membrane. At the cellular level, this is quite a big damage. It’s a big problem, and in embryology it has been shown that this cutting of the cellular surface can lead to embryogenesis problems. That is, the embryo no longer forms as it should. You should know that most miscarriages before twelve weeks happen because of these embryogenesis problems.

Those who manage to get through will clearly have negative effects later, during pregnancy or after birth, if the mother’s body keeps the embryo and doesn’t reject it through a spontaneous abortion. That’s why we have so many spontaneous abortions, from over-investigation, from too much interference. So, serious intrauterine growth problems happen precisely because of that streaming phenomenon, because these phenomena interrupt the process of growth and development, which leads to a lower birth weight. Exactly as I was saying. We stress the fetus a lot. We can cause too low white blood cell counts, mini-hemorrhages in the lungs and intestines. These are not my inventions, they are clinical studies, but they don’t reach our ears. Thrombi form at the level of red blood cells as a result of prolonged exposure to ultrasounds. Here I put a picture so you can better understand the cavitation effect. Look at how the bubbles that form look. Afterwards, the bubbles actually implode and the dead cells, uh, and, uh, the fats will probably be, at some point, washed away by the body, which has to do something with them.

So, these are the harmful effects that no one tells you about. I know, you may hate me now that you’ve found out so many shocking things. But yes, I had to tell you, because, you see, a newborn can look perfectly healthy at birth. But inside, at the macrocellular or chromosomal level, problems may have already occurred that have affected the natural development of organs and vital systems at the bone, muscular, nervous, cerebral, lymphatic, and hormonal levels. The problem is that, if you add vaccines or other neurotoxins, sedative medications, anesthetics—which, by the way, are used during birth—these problems, based on what we build here, will amplify on an already altered background, becoming recognizable perhaps only over time. That’s why the manifestations of diseases or neurological dysfunctions cannot be recognized or observed immediately. All these things are actually stress factors that act synergistically, causing apparently inexplicable collapses. So yes, many things are explained now that you know these things. So, please, I hope this material reaches you before you’ve already done too many investigations.

If you’ve already done them, stop! It’s never too late. Maybe not all this disaster has happened, yes? But stop! Don’t do them anymore, because YES, no one tells you. That’s why I’m here, somehow, to tell you—not to upset you, but to tell you to stop. Because this is also very important. Most people say: Oh, if only I had known... I know! We can’t know everything in advance, but at least after we find out, we can change, uh, change our attitude, yes? Thank you for attending this course. There will be more to come about ultrasounds.