May your heart be well, my dear! I am Ditta Depner, and today we are meeting for a course about the cervix. Especially the cervix during contractions and about the mucus plug. I want to talk to you about all these aspects so that you can better understand your body and why an induction of labor, meaning a forced birth, usually happens through traumatizing actions on the cervix. Because the cervix is the first gateway through which the baby must pass to be born. If your labor is induced or forced, something will be done to your cervix to make it dilate or allow this passage. Otherwise, the baby cannot come out. All these actions that are done to force you to give birth are also called obstetric violence. And obstetric violence, even though we are in the 21st century, still occurs worldwide and flagrantly violates the rights of every woman on this planet.

I will tell you about when the baby is born, about their birthday, and their birthday is not our choice, but it is truly when they are meant to come. We will talk about who decides when labor starts. I will also show you images of where the cervix is located and discuss the behavior of the cervix during labor, so you can understand what your cervix knows how to do. We will also discuss a second gateway to this world, through which the baby must pass to be born. That is the woman’s perineum. So, first, the baby must pass through the cervix, then through the perineum.

We will talk about what the mucus plug is and about the anatomy and physiology of the uterine seal, or the mucus plug. So, welcome to the lesson about the cervix and the mucus plug! Let’s see what people, doctors, and midwives today know about traumatizing the cervix at birth as an artificial method of induction or forcing labor.

This catheter or balloon, as it is also called, is a catheter that was usually used for the urinary bladder. I have seen that, more recently, it is a method of forced induction of labor. It is a method by which this Foley balloon, as it is called, is actually inserted into the woman’s cervix, and this balloon will be inflated, causing trauma to the cervix, which, from that inflation, will be, let’s say, opened and dilated. The idea is that, when we do something like this, our body does not actually support labor and does not support cervical dilation; it is a forced thing that can also cause pain and, of course, will be a forcing. It will be a forcing through which the baby will not actually start collaborating and will not begin the birth process. Because no one else decides when your baby is born—your baby decides when to be born.

So, avoid artificial methods of induction and forcing labor, because they are not hormonally supported by your body or by the baby. And yes, of course, they can cause countless problems, considering that it is not time to give birth as long as labor does not start on its own, that is, from the baby.

Another way to start labor is the stripping of the membranes from the cervix—sweeping of the membranes. It is such a rare and painful intervention that it falls into the category of abuse and obstetric violence. It is done without the woman’s consent or, if she is told, it is only mentioned as a cervical check, which will be extremely painful and will trigger labor prematurely.

So, what happens? When the doctor or midwife—usually the doctor—performs this intervention, they insert a finger into the vagina, pass through the cervix, and insert it into the uterus, creating space between the amniotic sac—I am showing you now on the screen—and the cervix, as if detaching it. That means stripping the membranes from the cervix, detaching the membranes from the cervix all around, which is incredibly painful. The woman usually jumps off the chair when this happens. And the doctor, because, after all, they are inducing labor, usually says that ridiculous phrase: “Oh, dear, if it hurts now, imagine how you’ll handle labor…”

My dears, this stripping of the cervical membranes is not pleasant at all, and birth is not about roughness or such pain. So, please, do not give anyone the chance to perform membrane stripping on you. Because it is a painful intervention, and after such an intervention, labor will start. That means it was forced. And yes, usually by the evening, contractions begin.

What bothers me the most is that you are deceived and lied to. I have thousands of examples where women are told to come for a check-up around week... it depends... 38, 37. Yes, there are doctors who do this if they have to go on vacation. Yes, unfortunately, this is what happens. You may be upset with me for saying these things, but I am on your side and your babies’ side, and I do not think it is right to take a baby out earlier just because the doctor who monitored your pregnancy is going on vacation. So what? There are others. The doctor should not take your baby out before their time just because they want to deliver you. Yes?

Most doctors who do this—and it is a common practice, so in Romania I have hundreds of examples, and it is practiced worldwide. The woman is called in for a check-up and told: “I want to check your cervix.” She gets on the examination table. The doctor inserts a finger into the vagina, strips the membrane. The woman screams in pain. She also starts bleeding a little. She leaves upset, sad, and humiliated by the doctor, who says: “If it hurts now, how will you handle a natural birth?” But no, that is a meaningless phrase. It is said in vain, because what was done to the woman is actually abuse and constitutes obstetric violence, and the doctor could be sued for this, because she was not asked if she wanted induction or forced labor or artificial initiation of labor.

So, membrane stripping or detachment from the cervix is abuse and must—(sighs)—must be eradicated. This abuse must be banned, because it is not a reason to take a baby out of the mother’s womb. And the woman then goes home. The doctor tells her: “Pack your bag, you’re coming to the hospital, you’ll give birth by tonight.” And the woman, who does not know what is going on and does not know what actually happened through this very violent intervention, will believe, “Wow, what a good doctor I have! Look how he knew I would give birth tonight.” Well, yes, you will give birth tonight or by morning, but you will give birth because he stripped your membranes and induced labor, not because the baby wanted or decided to be born tonight. It is abuse, ladies, and it is considered obstetric violence and is very painful.

That is why I always say: after thirty-four weeks of pregnancy, you have no reason to see the doctor unless you had a problematic pregnancy. Why? Because there is no reason. If it is a doctor who does this, usually, you will not be able to do anything after they strip your membranes. You will give birth, but you will give birth forcibly. Any forcing is not natural and could lead to complications. How many babies who are taken out too early then spend weeks in the incubator because something did not work as it should? How many babies who are taken out at thirty-seven weeks do not have problems afterward? Because, by the way, do you know what develops the most from week thirty-eight until birth? And this can even be a month until birth, because babies are not born at forty weeks, as we all know. The worldwide average for women giving birth to their first child is forty-one point three weeks, that is, forty-one weeks and three days. So from thirty-eight to forty-one point three is almost a month, a month in which what develops in the baby’s body in the womb? The lungs! You surely knew about this, but there is something else that develops, and modern medicine does not really know about it: the brain.

Why should we take a child out earlier than necessary? Because there are no more doctors to attend births or because you are being deceived? That is what it is about. And there is even a worldwide movement against obstetric violence, in which—(sighs)—the woman is like a flower, like a rose. Each of us is a rose, and we must not forget that, because no one has the right to induce your labor, my dear, without well-founded medical reasons. And what I mentioned earlier is not a well-founded medical reason to induce your labor. Neither with a balloon nor with membrane stripping. Not because the doctor is in a hurry, not because they want a cesarean. Induction of labor is only allowed if there are indeed situations of fetal distress or... problems with the baby, and the baby must be taken out urgently to save their life. But not because we are going on vacation or because the holidays are coming.

Induction of labor is not a joke to play with. Induction of labor is something very serious and can have repercussions. So, we do not play with cesareans, nor with doctors who leave or do not want to or have their own schedule, because we all have schedules in our lives. No one is somehow obliged to attend to us or be there all the time as we want. But no one has the right to do things to you that you do not consent to.

So, who knows when the baby will be born? Who knows? Who should know this? The mother, the father, the doctor, the midwife, the hospital, the pregnancy calculator, the ultrasound, or the baby? Obviously, the baby knows when to be born. Because there are studies showing that the baby makes a movement of the diaphragm that mimics inhalation and exhalation. The diaphragm rises and falls, rises rhythmically and falls. This movement of the diaphragm actually mimics inhalation and exhalation, inhalation, exhalation, inhalation, exhalation. This rhythmic movement of the diaphragm, at some point, towards the end of pregnancy, forty-eight hours before birth, the baby stops it. Wow! Who stops it? The baby. How does the baby know it is time to be born? They just know.

So this movement of the diaphragm stops forty-eight hours before birth, because the baby somehow knows they will be born. And so as not to confuse it with inhalation and exhalation in the lungs, which, during pregnancy, are still filled with a fluid similar to gastric fluid, so that the walls do not stick together and to allow the lungs to develop and grow, the baby knows they will be born. So, who decides? The baby. Who knows when they should be born? The baby. The mother, the father assist. The doctor will find out. The midwife will see. The hospital is there to receive a mother who comes to give birth to her baby in the rhythm and way it should happen.

The baby is born on their birthday. It is their birthday. Just as we chose our own birthday, so does the baby—they are born on their day. Exactly as I said before, the baby knows forty-eight hours in advance that they are about to be born. That is when they stop the diaphragm movement that mimics breathing, precisely to avoid confusion.

What you see here is an expulsion with an intact perineum, to show you that it is possible and that nothing needs to be done. The woman’s perineum is perfectly built to expel a baby. And now, is there an expiration date on the baby’s forehead or on the mother’s belly? No. Only in modern medicine is it said that, God forbid, the baby “expires.” They do not even use that term, but they scare women to the maximum when it comes to “Oh no, how much longer will the baby stay inside? Why is it taking so long?” Well, let’s make some notes. I really want you to write these things down, because the worldwide average for the first baby born to a mother is forty-one weeks and three days. The worldwide average for the second baby is forty weeks and three days. For the third, it is forty weeks. And regarding twins, because there is also a fantastic misconception here, we think that twins must be born earlier because otherwise, there is no more room. No. I have had twins who stayed in the mother’s womb until forty-one weeks and a few days and were born perfectly healthy, one weighing six and a half pounds and the other seven pounds. The idea of taking babies out at thirty-four weeks is a hazard, madness, to take such risks. Babies do not “expire” in the womb, and they will come out anyway. Yes? Twins do not have to come earlier, as you have been told. So, the baby does not have an expiration label, but simply needs to stay in the womb exactly as long as truly needed.

What is the cervix? The cervix is the first gateway before the baby slides into the vagina. This is the vagina. Down here is the perineum, and the cervix is the gate that opens when dilation contractions begin, and the baby’s head will enter the vagina, after which, after those few centimeters, the baby will be born and see the light of day. The perineum is the second gateway out of the intrauterine environment. The path from the cervix to the exit from the vagina measures only a few centimeters. I guarantee you that these few centimeters will be the most intense centimeters ever experienced. So, the perineum is the second gateway out of the intrauterine environment. The perineum is perfectly built to be passed by a baby without causing injury.

Let’s see what the cervix looks like during pregnancy. Here we have a long cervix, in which there is a mucus plug that, let’s say, seals. That is why it is called the uterine seal. It seals the uterus. But it happens that during pregnancy, due to the movement of the cervix, that seal can be lost. But it regenerates. So there is no need to be afraid that these things will not resolve. Here we have a cervix already dilated, even if the dilation is small. Here dilation begins in labor.

What does the mucus plug or uterine seal look like? Sometimes it can look like this. I told you that this plug or seal is actually a kind of defense against, let’s say, bacteria that could enter the uterus. But the plug can be lost several times during pregnancy. It regenerates. You do not need to worry. The vagina is not a straw through which microbes and other bacteria are absorbed to reach the baby. Your baby is fine. Anyway, the baby is in their amniotic sac. Nothing at all happens, because nothing passes that little sac. The mucus plug can also look like this. I apologize if it causes certain reactions. Yes, so I want to show you the mucus plug so you are not scared by what you might find in your underwear at some point, if you do find it. The mucus plug regenerates. The uterine seal can be lost several times during pregnancy because the movement and position of the cervix change depending on the woman’s emotional state.

We will talk more about the mucus plug and how contractions manifest and what to do during contractions in labor. Thank you.