May your heart be well, my dear! I am Ditta Depner, and today we are meeting for the course on the physiology of contractions. What I want to share with you today is that contractions are what will bring your child into the world. And for you to understand what a contraction means, you need to know what your body does and what your body knows how to do in order to bring this baby into the world. I will tell you about what you will feel during birth and explain the sensations you will experience when labor begins. We will also discuss the idea that birth is made up of many very short moments, called contractions. That is why you should not be afraid—birth is not as you have seen in movies. It is not relentless pain, one after another, but rather it consists of many moments between which you can catch your breath. 

So, in this course, I will tell you about the three stages of birth, about cervical preparation, and about when the baby enters the transition phase. I will also tell you what happens after birth, because when you give birth, the process does not end with the birth of the baby—you still have another birth, the birth of the placenta, which is much easier. So again, when you understand the mechanisms—(navigating through throat) excuse me (coughing). When you understand the mechanisms of birth, you will know exactly how capable your body is of managing the entire labor process. We will also talk about what a contraction feels like, because I can explain what a contraction is similar to and how long they last depending on the stage you are in. And we will discuss the intensity of birth. So, let’s see what contractions are and get to know the physiology of contractions, because contractions are spasms of the uterus that will allow your baby to be born. So, contractions really are what will bring your child into the world. And there is nothing to be afraid of, because without contractions, the baby would remain in the womb.

What is birth like? What does birth feel like? This is the question of all the women I have met who have come to my courses. And it is also the question I have always had, because before I decided to give birth naturally, I was afraid and chose a cesarean. I chose the cesarean, even though later, after the three miscarriages I had, I changed my mind, because I realized that I am perfectly built to receive a child exactly as we were somehow designed, yes, by... Our body is truly capable of enduring birth, of going through it, and of bringing this baby into the world. But what can we do? We can learn in order to dispel fear. Because fear is what blocks the birth hormones the most. So, the body can handle birth precisely because this process is divided into many intense but short moments, so that any woman can go through labor.

My dear, birth is not relentless. Birth is not torture. Birth is not hours of waiting to survive this physiological process. Birth can be experienced differently. That is exactly what I want to talk to you about, because there is a lot of emotional weight on a woman when she knows she will have to go through this. That is why we will talk about what the body knows how to do, so you no longer have this fear that you will not cope. If birth were so complicated, I am absolutely convinced that we would have disappeared as a civilization long ago. But look, women have been giving birth for thousands of years. That is what we know. The idea is, yes, I do not deny it. A lot of suffering and a lot of pain are associated with this process. But I also have examples, even with myself, that prove exactly something you will not hear in the hundreds, thousands of beautiful birth testimonials. I had two births. And three miscarriages, through which I learned that, no, the cesarean is not the model I should follow. And yes, it was a conscious choice to give birth naturally to my first child. Only that the experience of my first child’s birth was not pleasant at all.

After the first birth, I swore—and yes, I broke my vow—that I would never teach prenatal education courses again. Why? Because it was exactly as I did not want it to be. It was a birth with physical pain, with the feeling that I would not be able to cope and that I would die. I had this acute feeling during birth and realized that I was not at all prepared. Even though I was a prenatal educator and had prepared for a pain-free birth, as I was learning then from a very well-known method worldwide, which said that birth is with a smile on your face and that it does not hurt. Well, at the first painful contraction, and this was at the beginning of labor, I panicked, because I realized that, okay, I am doing everything by the book, but why does the contraction hurt? Exactly at that moment, all my enthusiasm was cut off and I went into panic mode, and the whole birth, which lasted two days and three nights, was a kind of near-death experience. At one point, I even said that I could not endure so much pain and that this was clearly my end and I would not be able to give birth naturally.

I gave birth naturally. It was a medicalized birth because at one point I had no chance left. The options were to go for a cesarean or to have my labor augmented with oxytocin, because neither I, nor my mind, nor my emotions, nor my body could cope anymore. I was exhausted, demoralized, and somehow demotivated to believe in that pain-free birth. What I want to tell you from my experience is that I redeemed myself with the second birth, which was very different from the first. To help you understand the difference: the difference was the approach and perception I changed, and the way I approached birth. At the first birth, I expected power, I think. At the second birth, I realized I did not want to relive the first. And I realized I had to change something in myself, in this idea.

The first thing I did was to let go of what others were saying about birth, because I realized we are not the same and I cannot copy a model that does not work for me. The first birth proved that to me. The second very important thing I realized between the two births—because I had a year and ten months between them to figure things out—was to rely more on myself and my mind, and to realize—and this was a big aha!—that my first birth was exactly like my own birth. When I was born, my mother almost died. I always lived with the guilt—and I almost died too. I always lived with the guilt that birth is a process in which the child endangers the mother’s life. And I realized that, in terms of feelings, even if the birth was not the same, the feelings were the same. That was a shock, because I realized that everything I had studied about how we repeat our own birth at birth is true.

The third thing I realized between the two births was that at the first birth, I was so disconnected from myself, so disconnected from the child I was supposed to give birth to, and super connected to everything happening around me and outside of me. And I realized that I thought... And I realized that was wrong. And I proved it to myself. At the second birth, I connected deeply with my body. I connected—not as much as I would have liked now, with all the knowledge I have—but I connected somewhat with the baby, but not enough. But it was, it seems, enough, although now I would not make that mistake again, because the baby also needs connection with the mother, because the birth process is done together. And what I realized was that the birth was much more beautiful. Not just a little, but a thousand times more beautiful. And as I mentioned in another video, what I experienced at the first birth was, on a scale from zero to ten, with ten being intense pain, for me it was a hundred. So you do not get the impression that I can endure pain or that I have a very high pain threshold, no. I am afraid of pain and have always run from pain.

But at the second birth, being in that deep connection with myself and my body, the pain I felt was, on that scale from zero to ten, with ten being the maximum intensity, around two or three. Two, dash, three. So, totally different. And it was beautiful, fulfilling, exactly as I would have wanted the first to be. In fact, after I gave birth, in four and a half hours, I was oddly annoyed that it did not last longer, so I could savor more that happy ending, that fulfillment, that feeling of a woman who moves mountains when she gives birth to her child. It was an experience I will not live again unless I have another child, because I realized—and I have read about this—that at the moment of birth, when birth is respected, when its physiology is respected and the body does its job as it needs to, we feel a flood of love, gratitude, greatness, strength, and awe like never before. I have no words to explain, and you can read hundreds of testimonials on my website to see how women who have been through it described it.

I redeemed myself and felt with every fiber of my being that if I could do this, I could do anything. And sometimes I forget how powerful I felt then and how I felt I could move mountains. Give me that mountain you want moved, and I will move it. That is truly the feeling a woman has when she gives birth, in her physiology, in her biology, letting her body do its job. So, what is birth like? Well, birth can be fulfilling and beautiful, or yes, it can be painful and disconnecting. I do not know how to explain this word that just came to me. It can disconnect you so much from yourself and your body, because you feel so much pain that a split occurs. And then a separation happens, which later can manifest as deep and profound depression.

So, please, listen carefully to what I am telling you, because I did not go through this for nothing, I did not learn and have this opportunity to compare the two ways of giving birth for nothing, so I can tell you and show you that it can be different, that you do not have to suffer during birth, because it is not about suffering. Because the body was built for this. The idea is not to interfere with it. And that is, I think, what I want to teach you now from my own experience, to show you how and how much I interfered when I was so disconnected from myself and so focused on the outside instead of being inside myself.

So, in order to connect with myself, to connect deeply within, the body gives me the opportunity to experience birth as a succession of very intense moments, with breaks. And those breaks make birth bearable, because otherwise the human body could not cope. Good. So, as I was saying, here you have a woman suffering during labor. We will talk a lot about birth position, attitude, perceptions, emotions, and about what you need to do during birth. But that is how I suffered at my first birth, when they gave me oxytocin—not the endogenous one from the body, but of animal origin, because that is the oxytocin they inject. I had nonstop contractions, without a break, and I thought I would die, because what was happening was inhuman. It was beyond my strength, and I could not go through such a process.

So, my conclusion was that if birth were relentless, that is, a process that starts at a certain hour and ends at a certain hour, no human being could endure such an intense physiological transition process. You cannot. It is impossible, because you need to adapt, and those breaks between contractions, when you do not feel pain and are just in your body and are fine—those breaks make that transition bearable, and not just bearable, but... You can go through it. Why? Because it allows you to adapt, to prepare for the next very intense seconds.

Let’s see what happens during birth. What you see here in the picture is the baby in the birth position. Birth has started. Why? Because, you see, the uterus is what surrounds the baby. Then we have the amniotic sac—sorry, the amniotic sac, which is yellow here. Anyway, it is a translucent, transparent thing. You also see the placenta, the brown crescent-shaped part, and the amniotic sac contains the amniotic fluid in which the baby stays for nine months. When contractions begin, the uterus starts to contract. It does these contractions precisely to facilitate the baby’s exit, and these contractions are meant to push the baby out of the place where it has been for nine months and which now becomes too small, because another stage of the baby’s life is about to begin.

So, there are three stages you need to understand, to understand as physiology. Not necessarily that there are three stages, or which stage you are in. That is not what matters and is not important. What is important is to understand what is happening to your body, dear mother, when birth begins. The first stage is the preparation and opening of the cervix. The cervix is exactly this part—the gateway to the vagina, which opens and forms, let’s say, an orifice just big enough for the baby to fit through, after which the uterine contractions will gradually push the baby out, millimeter by millimeter, so it slides into the vagina. The second stage is the baby’s arrival into the world, that part of sliding through the vagina and birth, and the third stage is the birth of the placenta. You do not just have to give birth to a baby—after the baby’s birth, comes the easiest part, the birth of the placenta. And all these actions are done by the uterine contractions. The uterus is what works, that is why it is called labor. It is its job to get the baby out of the womb.

So, who manages the birth? The baby together with the house it lives in, meaning the uterus. Why is there collaboration between them? Because there is hormonal collaboration. The baby gives the start, and the uterus responds. Contractions are determined by hormones. So, you see how closely all this is connected—biology and physiology of birth with hormones. That is why women who do not experience birth biologically and physiologically will definitely experience a hormonal imbalance after birth, because the biological program for the child to be born was not fulfilled. The body will be thrown off balance. And then, hormonally, if something is thrown off, the woman is affected—she is affected in the sense that, mentally and emotionally, she cannot cope with the hormones that simply show that something was not exactly as it should have been.

Good, let’s see the first stage, yes? Where the cervix—you see it here already, the cervix is open, and the baby’s head is about to slide into the vagina. This is the cervix. In front, we have the vagina. Seen from this perspective, the baby’s head begins to enter the vagina. The cervix is the first gateway to this world. The same cervix will be opened by the uterine contractions until it is fully dilated and allows the head to pass. So, the cervix at first is tight, like my fist now. When contractions start, the contractions pull on the cervix and begin to open it, to enlarge it, until the baby’s head passes through and slides into the vagina. So contractions actually open the cervix. That is the role of the initial contractions in this stage, after which, simultaneously, the baby starts to be pushed to pass through the cervix, through the vagina, and be born. So everything is orchestrated very precisely, very correctly, and very physiologically and biologically, so that the baby comes out of the womb. The key is not to interfere with this process. How can we interfere with this process? Hormonally. Good! What does hormonally mean? Hormonally means emotionally. My emotions are influenced by hormones. Hormones influence my emotions. Does that make sense? If I have states of fear, panic, anxiety, what is the first reaction when we get scared? Come on, men know how women react when they sit next to you while you drive—(hii)—you know that sound? That’s it. That’s the contraction, the tensing, the fear. Yes? When a woman does that, or anyone does that, we tense up. We are tight. Yes? All our muscles contract. What is the uterus? Isn’t it also a muscle? Yes, it is the most flexible muscle in the female body, which knows how to get the baby out through those uterine spasms. So it is a muscle that knows how to contract and expand. Through this contraction, what does it do? It opens the cervix and pushes the baby out.

Good. If I am in that “hyy” state, I am all tense, including the cervix is tight, including the uterus is tight, so the contractions are trying in vain to do their job of contracting and softening. Yes? When I am already contracted, the uterus contracts even more, and that is where pain comes in. Because if I am already contracted, the uterus cannot relax between contractions, it remains tight. There is already a strain there. If my uterus were relaxed, with me relaxed, then contractions are contraction and relaxation, contraction and relaxation, and this happens easily. It happens without pain. When the woman is in “hiy”, in anxiety, in fear, everything freezes. When it is frozen and still has to contract, it starts to hurt. And now you will realize and have understood, in fact, where that pain comes from that millions of women talk about—how they experienced birth. Because, in fact, in the state they were in, in the state of fear, they could not experience labor differently. And so, yes, it hurts.

So, the cervix—you see it here. The more relaxed the woman is, the more easily those contractions will open it and open the first gateway to this world. Easily and exactly at the right pace. So, what do you have to do? Relax, because the more tense you are, the more unresolved fears you have, the more painful birth becomes. That’s the secret. And it’s simple. How do you get rid of fear? Well, we work on that. Through understanding, first, through awareness that birth is something physiological, like digestion. Does digestion hurt? No. When does it hurt? When I am conflicted. When I have a conflict that affects my digestion. Remember, maybe, I don’t know, you haven’t had it. My grandfather used to tell me: “Dear child,” that’s what he called me, “never eat when you are upset.” And I didn’t understand that. It took me a long time to understand that being upset affects digestion. Nerves affect your digestion. If you have a heated discussion at the table, don’t be surprised if you get sick or your stomach hurts. Because when we interfere with physiology, our body says: “Hello, what you’re doing is not good, because it’s going to hurt.” Because you are interfering with a physiological process. Exactly the same thing happens with birth. Our body would know how to give birth very well, as long as we do not interfere, as long as we do not influence with our states, physiology, hormones, mood, emotions.

I hope this explanation was clear enough for you to realize how much birth depends on your inner state and your own responsibility. Good. What is the second part? What is the second gateway? The perineum. What you see here is a vulva. Here we have the clitoris. Here we have the labia. Here, in the back, would be the anus, and here we have the baby just passing through this second gateway out of the intrauterine environment. Who do you think gets the baby out? Uterine contractions. Again, the same protagonist—the uterus. The uterus propels and pushes the baby millimeter by millimeter, not to say centimeter, because that seems a lot, centimeter by centimeter through the vaginal canal into this world. So, if we remain relaxed, the baby will pass through the first gateway—the cervix, will pass through the second gateway—the perineum, and will come perfectly into this world. All mammals go through exactly the same process. And here we are in the 21st century, taking notes from our fellow mammals, who do not scream, do not shout, maybe they moan during birth or make sounds. Just as women, if they are not overwhelmed by pain because the process was rushed, because they were given oxytocin intravenously, because they were made to give birth in unnatural, painful positions—yes?—then the woman makes sounds, moans. That is what birth is about. A woman who screams—no, there the birth process was interfered with. A woman who moans—yes, she is giving birth. And if you come to my live online course, I will show you videos where you will see women vocalizing during birth. Well, they are not singing, but you will see that they make sounds and moans, and you will even see that these moans are similar to the moans people make during lovemaking. So it is not pain, it is something else. So birth can be experienced differently. I wish for you to have an orgasmic birth, because that is also possible. Google it. You will see that orgasmic births exist, but for that you need to free yourself from fear. Because fear contracts you. And fear, fear produces pain, and pain does not allow any state of well-being to manifest.

So, the perineum is perfectly built for any kind of baby, because no one implants it there—it is yours, it is from your genetics, from your being. Both the man and the woman contribute to the child’s genetics. The child can be born without problems, with an intact perineum, as long as the woman knows what to do, to respect her body and its rhythm. The third stage of birth is the expulsion of the placenta. What you see here is the placenta itself. You can also see the umbilical cord, and this is right after birth. And it all happens thanks to contractions, uterine contractions. And yes, the good news is that it is a much easier birth. Why? The placenta has no bones. It is a flexible organ, it can be compressed, it is soft, but it is not like a baby’s head. Because you will see that, in fact, the hardest work is to give birth to the baby’s head, because after that, the body slides out like a little fish, with the next contractions. So, the expulsion of the placenta also happens thanks to contractions. So your uterus knows what to do, because it contracts and expels. All you have to do is not stop it, not block it—hormonally, emotionally, mentally. That is our job.

The secrets of a beautiful and fulfilling birth are discovered right now, by understanding the physiological process of the female body. Your body is perfectly built for birth. Trust it and prepare yourself so you can understand it and not be afraid anymore. Because fear disrupts everything. When you understand your body and know that it knows how to do its job, you will trust yourself. And actually, that’s it. You do not have to discover anything, because everything is already there. You just have to accept that you have the power inside you and that you will use it to the fullest, to get through an intense situation like labor before birth. When you understand the process, fear disappears, anxiety disappears, because you can rely on whom? On yourself! On your body. On your baby. Because that is how we function. We function perfectly, as long as we do not interfere. If birth were not bearable, as I said before, we would have disappeared as a civilization long ago.

I want you to look at this picture. I want you to feel the ecstasy, the joy, the enthusiasm, the fulfillment, the power of this woman. The moment, the emotional charge of this intense moment, in which everyone is caught as if in a spell by the miracle of birth. And yes, labor is not measured and does not equate to your personal pain tolerance. That is nonsense. There are women who are said to have a higher or lower pain threshold. Those with a higher threshold are said not to feel pain. And those with a lower threshold, they feel pain. My dears, whether you talk or not, you are listening to someone who is actually fearful—so I am afraid of the dentist, of pain, of anything that could cause me physical pain. But I would give birth to a whole army of children. A football team, if I did not have to raise them too. Why? For that fulfillment you feel after birth is complete? Because you will not experience that again in life. Because it is beyond anything you have ever tried to experience. It is beyond those moments when you felt butterflies in your stomach. It is a moment of assuming your own fantastic personal power.

So yes, it does not matter how high or low your pain threshold is. These are myths. Courses that teach you to dominate your pain during birth are nonsense. You do not have to dominate anything. You have to dominate yourself, let’s say, to get rid of fear. Because ninety-something percent of fear comes from not knowing. Usually, we are afraid of what we do not know, right? You are afraid of what you do not know. You are afraid when you do not know what to expect. It is exactly like the fear of death, because no one talks about it, it is a taboo. The same thing applies to birth, because no one talks about birth except in negative terms, we have a fear. The fear of birth. It is very simple.

So, what do you see in this picture? I chose it carefully. Do you see pain? I see intensity. I see connection. I see a strong woman, supported by a man who understands what she is going through and who is simply there. There to support her. That is all that is needed. Nothing more. That is what birth is about. About support, about responsibility, about yes, I am going through this, I take responsibility, I know how to give birth to my child. About beauty, about love, that is what birth is about. And yes, birth is supported from within by your hormones. You just have to not ruin your birth with your states and feelings. Which ones? Those of fear, those of anxiety, those of insecurity. Just allow yourself to go through them. Do not resist. Resistance does not help. Allow yourself to go through those intense moments, with all the sensations you will have, and believe me, that is the secret. From that moment when you are relaxed, your hormones will help you. And we will talk about hormones during birth.

Birth hormones reduce your pain, give you a sense of amnesia. You no longer know how fast or slow time passes. Everything changes. You are in another state. You are in a trance. This trance is automatic for all mammals, as long as there is no adrenaline. What does adrenaline mean? Fear. When I have no fear, endorphins manifest, which are the hormones that reduce pain. Then estrogen and progesterone appear, which give you a slight anesthesia in the entire lumbar and perineal area. So that trance in which all mammals enter, as long as there is no fear, pain, terror, feelings of terror or panic, those manifest. The trance manifests. That calm manifests. That trust manifests. And then the hormones that help you manifest. That is why women who are in that trance do not scream, do not shout, do not feel pain. But it is intense. There are sensations. Get rid of fear and trust the physiological process of your body.

And the same applies to men. Because if the man cannot stay calm and cannot be there to support the process, if he gets scared, the fear is transmitted. Think about it, you are a couple. You feel each other. You feel when your partner trusts you. You feel when your partner is afraid. You feel when your partner is insecure or does not feel well. So these things are felt. Adrenaline is transmitted. Especially since you have an energetic channel. Because you are a couple. If the man is responsible and understands what a woman goes through during birth, he will be able to support her. But that is not all. If the woman is also responsible and manages to understand her body, she will get rid of fears and trust this natural process. And then we have the perfect setup for a beautiful and fulfilling birth.

And now, what sensations will you have during a contraction? Because this is the classic question. What will I feel? Are contractions bearable? This is the question I am usually asked at all courses, and honestly, I had it in mind too when I had no idea what birth feels like. So, what is a contraction? Is it bearable? Let me reassure you, wonderful women! A contraction is similar to menstrual pain. The good news is that this menstrual pain does not last a day, two, three, but lasts twenty to thirty seconds. Because that is how long a contraction lasts. What do you think? Can you handle twenty seconds, can you handle twenty seconds of menstrual pain? I say yes. All the women I have asked this question have answered, “Ah, twenty, thirty seconds. No problem. I do not even need pills or medication.” What about pain that lasts a whole day or hours on end? No, that does not exist. A contraction lasts twenty to thirty seconds. I am talking about dilation contractions, those that dilate the cervix and push the baby further. Indeed, towards the end, when the baby is already in the vagina, contractions can become a bit longer. They can extend to forty-five seconds, but they do not reach a minute. Only if, yes, your labor is augmented and you are given oxytocin intravenously. Then, I promise you and tell you from experience, contractions are nonstop, and I could not cope. I thought I would die, because it was not normal to have such contractions. But the body does not produce such things. The body does not produce anomalies. The body does not produce contractions that last more than a minute or contractions one after another, because it does not do that. Because it could not cope. So we can handle twenty seconds of menstrual pain. We can handle thirty seconds, but forty-five seconds—can we handle that? We can, because we can and because this is not the end of the world.

And yes, this is the truth. Birth is intense, but intensity is not measured in pain. I do not know how to say this. Intensity is emotional, psychological. Because the woman, besides experiencing those contractions that can cause pain, also experiences unconscious memories from her own birth. That is why it is so important for a woman and a man, when they become parents, to take responsibility for and heal their own birth. Because everything that is unresolved and unhealed will manifest at the birth of their child. So intensity comes from something else too. It does not come only from physical sensations. It comes from emotional charge, and emotional charge can be resolved. That is why I am here, to help you heal your own birth, because that is the first step to being able to have and experience a beautiful and fulfilling birth. Because it is possible! I promise you it is possible! I managed to have a beautiful and fulfilling birth without knowing all these things I discovered about myself. So you have a privilege. You have thirteen years of work, and more to come, to help you not have to go through and experience and learn and draw conclusions yourself. Learn from me, because it is easier. I give you the summary. I give you the cherry on the cake. Yes? It is easier than you think. But yes, it is work, work of awareness. And that is what we do in the online course with me about healing your birth, before you embark on the birth of your child.

So, to recap, birth can be experienced in two ways. And you have the lady here, who, as you can see, is in acute, traumatizing suffering. Or yes, birth can be experienced consciously, intensely, but beautifully and fulfillingly. Here is another beautiful picture that says it all. So, you can choose what kind of birth you want. Because it depends on you. There is nothing you cannot know. The problem is that everything you do not bring to the surface will somehow remain in your system and will haunt you. Yes, I know, it sounds a certain way. But in fact, everything we do not bring to the surface follows us. It follows us until we become aware that it is related to our current state or to our birth, or to our development. Because that is why we come. We come to experience, to learn, to assimilate lessons, important life lessons. Life does not want you to learn all the lessons of everyone in this world. Life wants you to learn your own lessons, which are important for you. How do you see them? Well, you will see them. They are in your life. They are your trials. They are your challenges. All you have to do is be aware and pay attention to them. And then, yes, you will discover them. And yes, you cannot skip them, because they remain there.

So, everything that turns into complications during birth, birth complications, are actually (three seconds pause) unresolved and unhealed memories from your own life, which, of course, you inherited transgenerationally. We will not go into such details, and your job is to get out of this vicious circle. That is why you came, not just to enjoy and be happy and excited. Life is wonderful, but it also comes with lessons. These are the most important lessons: to discover yourself, to see all those depths, all those dark places where you cannot see exactly what is there. So, birth and your birth experience, your child’s birth, will be very influenced by all these things. And yes, at that moment when you have become aware of what you needed to become aware of, yes, you will be able to have a birth with a smile on your face. Because that is how it is normal for birth to be—with a smile on your face.

By the way, the last two images are of former students. So it is possible. They are not just pictures from the internet. Yes? Thank you, and I look forward to seeing you at the next course about birth.