Hello, dear dad! Actually, hello, dear future dad, because it seems that the baby has not yet arrived in this world, and this is the occasion I want to take advantage of to ask you to do something: to watch the video I have prepared for you together with your partner. I have a very important message for you, which might offer you many “aha” moments. Let me briefly introduce myself: I am Dita Depner. Your partner has probably told you about the course she would like you to watch as well. Today, I am here in front of you to convince you. I don’t know if I will succeed, but I know that many men consider birth to be a woman’s business. You should know that this is the general perception. And yes, I used to think the same way. Until I realized how much I wanted support during birth and how important it is for any woman not to be alone at key moments, especially when this takes place in an environment that is not exactly friendly. This is the strangest part of all this, because no one believes that in a maternity hospital you can have a pretty bad experience as a mother, because until it happens to you, you don’t believe it.

I have been talking for over thirteen years about obstetric violence, and I want to inform you because you are the one most able to do something to prevent this from happening. So, you should know that I have also met men who would have liked to be involved in the birth or the arrival of their child, but did not know what their role was. I can tell you that after this course, you will know exactly what to do, you will understand all the moments your partner will go through during birth, and you will know exactly what your responsibilities are. Besides that, you will truly be a real support for your partner, who, believe me, will need you one hundred percent in those moments.

All I want to ask is that you watch this chapter from my course, which I am offering you as a gift and which will answer any objections you might have about participating in this course or the entire course together with your partner. Of course, I know the choice is entirely yours. In short, what is this about? This child you have conceived comes thanks to both parents. If you participated in conception, of course, that is the most important and decisive step. I believe you should be by your partner’s side not only during pregnancy, but also at birth and afterwards, when the baby comes and you will literally have your hands full, because things will change drastically, even radically. They say there is a life before the baby and a life after the baby. Most parents are not used to this very important role, for which no one prepares us. That is why many relationships start to deteriorate, because the man truly does not know how he could help his partner, and she no longer has the strength to maintain the relationship and communicate as they did before, or to not be so exhausted and tired and to feel understood. And this is the most complicated thing after the baby comes.

If you already have a child, I can say that this course will help you recover everything you didn’t know to do at the first or second birth. I have had dads who came for the fifth birth, meaning they were dragged to the course, because that’s how it was when I held live courses, and they left enthusiastic and amazed at how many things they didn’t know and how many things they could do. I have a dad who even gave a testimonial, which you can access because I have attached it to this course, who came for the fifth birth, after four hospital births. I don’t remember if it was the fifth or sixth. At the hospital, where he obviously did not participate, because in Romania you rarely participate in the birth, especially in recent years and not before, except in some hospitals. Why? Because it is much easier to have access and behave a certain way with a pregnant woman when there aren’t two more eyes, two more ears, and a partner present. So, the biggest abuses happen when the woman goes alone to give birth, and ironically, this is even regulated by law. The Romanian patient law says that any woman or any person is allowed to have two companions at any intervention. So, not only could you participate, but your partner could also hire a doula or a midwife or someone else to come with you and be together with you in those moments.

Now I want to return to your role not just as a father, but your role in the relationship you have with your partner. I want to talk a bit about the programs we have as people, imprinted in our character. Usually, when we choose our partners, we choose them based on the idea of alpha male and female. When we decide on someone, we see them in a certain light. I mean not just myself as a woman, but also the man when he chooses his woman. He sees her in a certain way. That’s why, when a man meets the woman he decides on, he will take his mother off the pedestal, who until then was the alpha female for him. Good, let’s see what the role of the alpha male is and how he behaves when, let’s say, these things happen involuntarily. Because we don’t necessarily think the way I will show you now, but our biological programs lead us to make such choices.

So, the alpha male has a characteristic word, actually several, but mainly this: “belongs to me” and “I possess.” That’s why the alpha male’s role is to be a leader, to control the environment or secure the territory he owns. To check and control the situations happening around him and to secure and control everything that belongs to him. To the word “belongs to me,” you should know that the woman and the family are also added. That’s why an alpha male will behave as a master, yes, to whom even the woman and the family belong. And it is natural and biological for it to be this way. That’s why he somehow has the fantastic and very assumed duty to protect his woman and family. For all these qualities, he needs his woman to admire him and validate him for his role as her and the family’s protector.

Good. When the alpha male chooses a woman, she will also be an alpha female, because the alpha female is the one who gives herself to her man. Because when she recognizes him as superior and as alpha, she will give herself to him. So she will belong to that alpha male and surrender in the most wonderful and transformative way. She will accept his leadership only if, only if this male is an alpha, meaning only if she recognizes these merits, only then will a woman hand over the reins. The woman’s role is to maintain this beautiful energy of a harmonious relationship between the two. She has the role of establishing connections between the extended family and the rest of the world. She somehow manages everything, because she has the capacity and her brain is developed in such a way that... she can manage complex situations. That’s why, if you’ve ever seen that video about the male and female brain, the woman is the type who does many things at once and is called multitasking. The man does not think as complexly. It’s not an insult, but he takes things one at a time, solves them one at a time. The woman is in seven thousand directions at once, because her brain works that way. That’s why she is an expert in maintaining the family, raising children, resolving conflict situations through communication. That’s why women talk a lot, because they are experts in communication. Of course, I’m talking about the ideal side, yes, the alpha male, alpha female. Now, she will become her man’s confidante as long as he listens to her and takes her opinion into account.

Now, a pregnant woman needs to be understood, to be listened to. Why? Because during pregnancy, many vulnerabilities surface. She will remember her own childhood, she will be troubled by how she came into the world, how she was treated. Many things from this spectrum will overlap with what she is experiencing now, making her very vulnerable and very changeable because of the hormones, which now offer her a totally new situation. Because these hormones are much different from the usual hormones in any person, because she is pregnant. And then, the situation of excessive vulnerability she is in—and you’ve seen she is much more vulnerable since she became pregnant, much more changeable. You don’t know what to expect. Sometimes she cries, sometimes she laughs. It’s not her fault, she doesn’t do it on purpose, it’s just that she is somehow always at one extreme or the other.

Why do I ask you to at least watch the video I prepared for you? Not this one, but one you should watch together, which is part of my course. Because, believe me, you have every chance for your relationship to grow and develop exactly in the direction you both want. If you don’t do this and leave her to go through that daily turmoil of vulnerabilities alone, even if you are next to her and even if you say, “my dear, it’s your job to give birth, I’m not getting involved,” she doesn’t need you to get involved in this, but simply to be there, because she needs to communicate to you what she feels, how she feels, what she thinks, how she thinks, what decisions she makes. Because she has that gift of connecting things outside the family, and this concerns you very directly, because when an alpha female no longer feels understood, listened to, when she feels—and maybe she will accuse you that you don’t give her time, especially now that she is vulnerable—she will eliminate the male. She doesn’t do it on purpose. I’m telling you how we function as biological programs. So you risk a very big rupture between you, and the relationship may deviate. Because when the woman is no longer body and soul for her man, for her partner, then automatically the relationship dynamic changes. The woman will take on the leader role because she no longer feels seconded by you, meaning she no longer feels protected, because it is natural and biological for her to be your protected one, and she will cancel her femininity and become the alpha male herself, because she has to take care of herself. I am explaining these things not to insult you or to give you some far-fetched opinion. I am just telling you what happens in most couples where, at some point during pregnancy, a rupture occurs and the man effectively loses her, because he no longer understands her, because he doesn’t know what to do.

That’s why I’m telling you: you can prevent this rupture, you can prevent your romantic relationship from declining or changing, because you know how. All you have to do is be there for her. It may seem to you that you have no business being there, but believe me, when you find out what an important role you have there, every minute or hour you spend doing certain things will be worth it. To prepare together for birth. To give you another lever, to help you understand a bit better the idea of the role and the alpha male’s role and the relationship between the two, I want to tell you something. The woman has the ability to charge the relationship, she charges and empowers the man and gives him the strength to shine. This happens when she admires him. He listens to her, admires her, and desires her, yes? That means a harmonious relationship. When you give her time, listen to her, take into account what she communicates to you, her needs, she will recharge you every time in this relationship. And your romantic life will not be ruined, neither during pregnancy nor after. Because it is very important for you to function even in times of, let’s say, crisis, when you don’t have time, because there is the baby, she is exhausted. You will see that things will change quite drastically, and you really need to support each other, because the biggest test of the relationship is pregnancy and the baby.

Maybe this is not your case, I’m not contesting that, yes? But I want to tell you that the more you love her, the more you listen to her—not those endless discussions women have with each other, but simply listen to her, give her time, allow her to express herself. Ask her how she feels, even if these discussions may seem strange, but they are not. They are the ones that will maintain the relationship. So, the more loving and understanding you are and the more you listen to her, the more she will recharge you, because she validates you and continues to see you as the alpha male. She will transfigure you more powerfully, and your relationship will not be hindered because she feels alone, because you think you have no business at the birth. Don’t think about it anymore. It doesn’t matter what decision you make now. Just be there for her in those moments when she asks you. Look, maybe she will ask you to take this course together, to go through it together. Believe me, all the couples who came to my courses—most men, as I said before, came dragged along as drivers, because, you know, that’s how it was, because other partners came and she didn’t want to come alone. Believe me, after this course, you could see that their relationship changed for the better, they were more together, more dedicated to each other. She felt more understood. He knew what to do. It’s actually that simple. I just want to give you that chance, so you don’t miss it.

The fact that our system and our society have excluded men from birth does not mean it is a good thing. Believe me, if you knew how many terrible things happen to women in maternity hospitals, especially in Romania, you would never leave her alone there. Because depressions also come from the traumas they pick up there, from the humiliating and insulting behavior they, ironically, encounter in the very place where they should be treated like goddesses.

Well, it’s like a request. I don’t want you to feel threatened by what I’m asking, but believe me, if you knew what happens there, you wouldn’t leave her alone. In the course, you will know and find out what it means for a couple to experience birth together. I will also tell you about the fact that men’s biggest fear is fainting, or, I don’t know, that something will change in their relationship and they won’t want to see their woman anymore. Believe me, look, behind me now there are images of men who participated in births. The fact that you did this together or will do this together will unite you even more. And believe me, those stories where the man faints, you should know that fainting happens when the man feels so helpless that he no longer finds his role, because he needs to have a role, because if he doesn’t see his role in those moments, then... he asks for a break or, yes, faints. But you have no reason to faint, because no one will ask you for a scalpel or to sew, or to see blood. Just be next to her, stroke her head, talk to her. Simply be there, because that’s what she needs.

I will tell you why during birth you will be the emotional, physical, and psychological pillar of support for your partner. You will find out why it is the most important thing for you to be the first to touch your child, to catch him, to hold him in your arms. Because let me ask you something: if you knew that a newborn’s skin is almost sterile, and the baby’s skin is instantly colonized with everything in the environment, wouldn’t you want it to be colonized with your microbiome, with your bacteria? Yes, because they will be in the environment you live in. And then, if you hold him in your hands and put him on your chest or on your partner’s chest, believe me, this colonization will not be with streptococci and all sorts of hospital monsters, but with what belongs to you, what your child is already used to, because you gave him life, you create him. He is made from your fabric. Yes?

As I said before, if I haven’t managed to convince you or maybe you’re curious, please watch these testimonials I have left for you from other dads who participated in my courses. And by the way, almost all of them came somewhat out of obligation and a bit blackmailed by their wives, and they participated in the birth and said they couldn’t have imagined not participating this time.

So, I wish you pleasant viewing and I look forward to you being by her side, watching the course together, preparing together. Believe me, she will reward you with so much love and so much devotion that you will be super happy. And I am absolutely convinced that you want your relationship to work not just well, but wonderfully, because you both want this. So be there for her. At the end, you will also receive a diploma, by the way, with which you can take that justified fifteen-day postnatal leave after the birth, so you can be together. Because this child is coming and needs to get used to you. And you will also need to get used to a new family member and be there for him, because she will literally have her hands full and will need you to even feed her with a spoon. Or to hold the baby while she goes to the bathroom, or to hold the baby because she needs to take a shower. Because the baby comes with a lot of needs, especially in the first two months.

So do yourself a favor. Do your relationship a favor. And let’s meet at the course. For starters, it’s enough if you watch the video I have prepared for you, called “The Birth Companion” or “The Importance of the Birth Companion.” Thank you very much for spending this time in front of the screen listening to me. I hope it mattered. Thank you.