Hello, my dear! I am Ditta Depner and I am glad to see you at this lesson about the perineum during childbirth. In this lesson, I will talk to you about favorable positions during labor to reduce sensations of pain. We will discuss labor management to protect your perineum, because the perineum is sacred during birth. I will show you images of the perineum’s anatomy during birth and give you practical advice for childbirth, for a birth with an intact perineum. We will also talk about how our sisters, the mammals, give birth with an intact perineum, because in nature I have very rarely heard of it tearing. No one rushes them, no one helps them, no one pulls their baby. So, our mammals know how to give birth more beautifully than humans. We will talk about the expulsion of the baby’s head, which is actually the most intense part of childbirth. We will talk about the birth of the body in a single contraction, and I will tell you that the perineum does not need to be trained, because it prepares itself, and I will teach you what you need to do to give birth with an intact perineum. I will also bring up the love hormones, the same ones that will help your baby be born. We will also talk about tenderness during labor, a taboo subject, but very useful to know. We will talk about orgasmic birth, because it exists, even if I do not speak from experience, but there are many videos you can search for and find on YouTube. And I will tell you a bit about postpartum depression, which comes from your birth traumas. Good, let’s begin! The perineum during birth. Please get something to write with, because you will take notes, so you have some information for later.

Contractions. You should know that contractions would hurt a lot if the mother were lying on her back. Why? When a woman lies on her back, all the abdominal muscles are stretched. Because she is lying down with her legs stretched out, the stretching of these muscles will cause greater sensations of pain during contractions. You should know that no woman will lie in a “dead man’s” position during labor. None. They will all move, they will all turn from one side to another. Maybe they will walk, maybe they will get up, maybe they will want to hang. That is why there are many maternity wards where women have options for positions other than lying in bed. Only in Romania have I seen the obligation given to some midwives by doctors that women are not allowed to get out of bed during labor. I find this barbaric, and a doctor who says such a thing is a person who hates women, a misogynist, because you cannot pin a woman to the bed during those intense moments when she needs to change position thousands of times to find one that is acceptable and not painful. So I do not understand why a woman should be restricted from moving as she wants, when she wants, during labor, especially since it is not an easy moment. So, do not forget, during labor, please find the position that makes you feel most comfortable. Because if you lie on your back, you will see—and you can even try to see—how you handle contractions while breathing on your back and not in another position.

The most common positions women automatically adopt during birth are gravitational ones. The woman does not lie on her back waiting for her time. She moves, she gets into positions. I remember that at my second birth, I was even on all fours. At one point, I hung onto a wardrobe. I knelt on some pillows, on a bed. Because I felt that every time things changed, and I needed to find positions in which I felt good. Now let’s see how the perineum reacts, which is built to allow a child to pass through. The perineum is so malleable and flexible that it allows the baby to pass easily, millimeter by millimeter, if it is not rushed to come out or if the birth process is not forced. What you see here is already the birth of the head, a head full of hair. Some babies are born with a lot of hair, and you see how the head does not have a typical round shape, but a pointed one, because it adapts to the woman’s pelvis and takes the shape that is easiest, an aerodynamic shape, so it can come out as easily as possible from the vaginal canal. So the perineum is perfectly built, especially since in the last weeks it is very strongly vascularized. That’s why it is said to darken, because the blood circulation increases in that area, precisely to make the tissues and muscles more permeable, easier to stretch, easier to penetrate. So, it’s very simple.

Here you see again a baby, actually a mother touching her baby for the first time. She touches the head to make sure, yes, that all her work makes sense. I tell you from my own experience, at the second child, at the first I did not have the courage to touch my baby, because I had infernal pain and anyway I did not believe I would succeed. At the second child, I still remember that it was a fantastic motivation to feel the head and to know that there was not much left. So, for me, those were the moments when I said: “Wow! I’ll push two more times and the baby will be born,” and it was incredible. So, touching the head at these moments helps the mother a lot to continue with all her confidence and courage. Because at some point you really feel that if you push one more time, you will tear apart. And look how beautifully the labia, clitoris, and perineum behave, and where you would not believe a baby could pass, the woman’s body can very well give birth to a baby. Just as mammals do not tear their perineum at birth, neither would women if labor were normal and not induced, forced, or augmented with animal-derived hormones.

Speaking of oxytocin, I have said this every time, that when you receive oxytocin, it is not human oxytocin. It is oxytocin from sows. Yes? What that sow oxytocin does is intensify contractions so much that it can cause uterine ruptures. Besides the fact that it is an animal product. I do not know who approved this, but probably we do not have other sources of this hormone, which is very important, but we could produce it naturally. But yes, that’s how it is. Until now, I thought it was synthetic, but no, it’s not synthetic, it’s animal. So, if the medical staff assisting had patience, my God, how everything would change, how everything would be different in childbirth! How much would births change? Why do women no longer give birth with an intact perineum? Not because they are put in a bad position, but because they are cut—at least in Romania, ninety-five percent of women who give birth naturally have their perineum cut with scissors, because, being put in that bad position of lying on their back, the baby pushes on the anus. And then the doctor says: “Ah, we have to cut again, this perineum... No one made it right. Whoever created us did not create the human body well.” And the baby has to come out through the vagina, so we have to widen the exit. Wrong. Look, the baby is born perfectly. Only the position is not good when the baby presses on the anus and not on the vaginal opening.

The uterus works. The uterus is the one that, through rhythmic contractions, will push the baby’s head millimeter by millimeter toward the exit. So the uterus delivers your baby. And this is what a baby looks like who is about to be born in a few contractions. When I do not have contractions, nothing moves and nothing hurts. Attention! When I do not have a contraction, I do not push. Because if I pushed when I do not have a contraction, I would tear the perineum, the vagina, the colon, everything. The baby advances only when I have contractions. That is why, in the pause between contractions, the baby does not move, nothing hurts, I just feel pressure. That is birth. Pain sensations exist only when the baby moves, when contractions work and push the baby toward the exit. That is why, please, do not push during the pause between contractions. So we are not allowed to push during the pause between contractions.

The birth of the head, as you have seen, is the most intense part of birth. In my live online course, we will watch some videos where you will actually see how the baby’s head is born and how sometimes, with a single contraction, the rest of the body comes out. You see here. These are the father’s hands catching the baby. It is a perfect reception. The birth of the head, as I said, is the most intense. After this stage, the shoulders fold. See how it comes? The shoulders are folded. The baby does not come with the shoulders wider and bigger to cause damage, but the shoulders fold. The baby actually folds to come out, and the rest of the body slides out easily and quickly at the next contraction. Usually, after the head comes out, because the contractions with the head coming out are the most intense and there are more of them. You have seen that I caught some pictures with expulsion. After that, at this contraction, the baby will not remain like this, but will come out completely. So the head is the most intense part, after which the whole body is born.

So the perineum does not need to be trained. And I am not the only one saying this, experienced midwives say it too, who do not recommend these devices, which, by the way, I did not throw away, so I can demonstrate to you that you do not need to buy such a device and that your perineum does not need to be trained with such nonsense. Here you can cut, Angel. Until I opened this thing. What we have here is this device that says “nou,” meaning “no way.” It is a device with a manometer and a balloon. Guess what? The balloon is inserted into the woman’s vagina. And because we have a chart with centimeters, meaning diameter. And now, theoretically, according to the leaflet, you have to inflate this balloon in your vagina, creating a false widening. Supposedly, now we simulate birth from week thirty-two, which is nonsense, because that would mean if I, from week—not thirty-two, sorry, from week thirty-six. If I, from week thirty-six until week forty-one, when I will probably give birth, that means five weeks times seven is thirty-five births in which I widen my vagina every day as much as possible, until my skin cracks. I tried it twice, then I threw them away because I got angry. It is utter nonsense to inflate a balloon in your vagina without your vagina or perineum or anything in you being prepared for birth. It’s like doing something cold, meaning without warming up. It’s like a woman wanting to have sex without being warmed up. Excuse me. Without being prepared. Without foreplay. Without being wet. Without being penetrable. Because she hasn’t gotten wet, she hasn’t gotten aroused, she’s not in the mood for anything. She shouldn’t have sex just because this balloon needs to be inflated. And that’s what it says in a book. Now, this is like sex or foreplay done in the evening for the morning. It’s like not having foreplay. Tonight I’ll write you down in my notebook, and tomorrow morning we’ll pick up where we left off. It doesn’t exist. It doesn’t exist. The woman needs to be warmed up, the woman needs to be prepared. The woman needs foreplay to be okay. It cannot be otherwise. And this is nonsense, because, besides widening your vagina, your perineum, your vagina is not prepared for birth for thirty-five days. And honestly, I haven’t heard of a woman having thirty-five children, and your perineum and vagina do not need to have thirty-five children. So why would you inflate your vagina thirty-five times, as if you had thirty-five births? For what? To widen it? There is no need. It’s like... I mean, now you haven’t even reached a very large dilation. We have about 7. What are we talking about? I deflate it, because it already hurts me and it makes no sense to do such stupid experiments. So this is a device, by the way, that arrived in Romania because of a very well-known and highly rated midwife, who bought a large stock and got stuck with it, thinking she would make a business out of it. And who insisted a lot, in these years since I have been active in Romania, especially when I worked in the hospital, to introduce it in the hospitals where I was, to sell it... They also have a shop. And I refused her every time, because I said: My dear, I will never sell anything that can harm a woman, because I am a woman. I will not ruin my vagina for a stupidity that thirteen years ago cost two hundred euros. Yes, now she sells it for fifty, sixty euros, because she’s left with that stock and never sold it. Because a normal woman does not give birth without tears because she trains with an EP CobbNewsletter:190718_3769, but only by training her perineum. And yes, unfortunately, many midwives do such businesses. It’s a pity. Yes, that’s how it is.

The perineum prepares itself for birth. You do not need training. The perineum is better prepared for birth than you can do cold, a month and a half before birth. It is the biggest nonsense to do this. A water birth, for example, softens the perineal tissues and makes the pelvic muscles more elastic because warm water relaxes and anesthetizes. Here, the woman is giving birth to her baby. The baby is already halfway out, and this is a very intense image when she actually gives birth to her baby in those moments. So, water birth helps a lot for a birth with an intact perineum, because warm water not only softens but also helps to make it more elastic, and the sensations of pain simply disappear. Because water is miraculous. That is why I recommend you choose a place where you can give birth in water. Not only if it’s your first birth, at any birth, even if it’s your tenth, I would recommend water, because, statistically speaking, there are studies where women who have given birth in water were asked if they would do it again, and all answered yes. And there was a sample of 3,600—I don’t remember how many women. The article is written on my blog. And only one said she didn’t want to give birth in water again. But then she added a postscript: I am at my seventh child and I am closing shop. So she didn’t want to have more children. Not because she didn’t want to give birth in water, because all her births were in water and were extraordinary. But at seven children, she probably said that’s enough. It’s okay. We don’t have to make a football team. So water birth indeed helps the most for a birth with an intact perineum, and gravitational birth helps just as much. That is why gravitational positions, whether in water or in the air, help the mother have a birth with an intact perineum, without fissures and without tears.

Water helps. Water helps enormously. Water helps with relaxation. Water helps with pain relief. Women who give birth in water do not ask for anesthesia because they do not feel the need for it, because it does not hurt as much. Water, therefore, greatly relieves pain. Labor can become very sensual. By the way, what you see here is not a love scene—well, it is a love scene, but not from a love movie, but from a birth film. This sensuality that is triggered leads to an easier birth, without sensations of pain, because it releases hormones that cause local analgesia in the mother’s body. So, besides the fact that a kiss triggers excess oxytocin, endorphins are also released. Endorphins help with pain relief. Endorphins correspond to artificial morphine, yes, which is given to people with excruciating pain and which has many side effects. But yes, it reduces that pain. In terminal cancer phases, morphine is given. So, when a woman activates her love hormones during birth, she will experience less pain. Now, I don’t know if you will have the intimacy to have such moments. Because I imagine that I could probably do something like this only at a home birth, where I would not feel, let’s say, watched by half the hospital: “Look at this crazy woman, she’s in the mood for love instead of giving birth.” The idea is that we are in the same cycle of love that conceived and implanted the baby in the womb and the love that will bring the baby out. The cycle closes. Yes, it is very interesting how researchers—those British ones, I’m joking—have concluded that romance and tender, sensual things during labor help a lot with its progress. It is even said that during labor, when the cervix is not fully dilated, if the couple could make love, it would increase oxytocin even more and produce more effective contractions. But here, well, you have to see if you are in the mood and consent to do this. Tenderness and romance are very appreciated and even necessary during birth and labor. That is why a woman has every right to have her man by her side at birth. You don’t have to make love, you don’t have to kiss, but the fact that the man is there, next to you, caressing you, comforting you, talking to you, touching you, hugging you—these things are gold. No one can replace them, not even a doula, because the love between you made this child possible. So it is the same thing. It’s the same pattern, the same emotions, the same feelings. It’s normal to cultivate them during labor. And yes, you will have enough moments of intimacy to express yourselves.

The love hormones contributed to the appearance of the child. They are exactly the same hormones that will help you during birth. For example, such a scene—and I will have more scenes like this during my live online course—where I show you how the man feels a fantastic attraction to the woman in labor, to his woman in labor. Somehow, it’s as if a loving and romantic interaction is required, because it’s all hormonal. It’s the same pattern. It’s the same emotions. So romance is gold for advancing labor. So, allow yourselves, if you feel comfortable, to become romantic and sensual and to enjoy those wonderful moments in which, yes, your child was also conceived and implanted. It is the same energy.

A woman needs support and help, and especially the feeling of belonging. Especially during labor. Do you remember, dear fathers, when I convinced you with that special message for you, where I talked about the alpha male and female? Because a couple always happens between an alpha male and an alpha female. Now, if it doesn’t happen that way, then it’s not strong and won’t last. But usually, when we choose and decide to choose, we clearly choose on those criteria. They are biological criteria that somehow our brain chooses, not necessarily us, consciously. And then the man is the one who offers that space in which the woman can allow herself. The woman needs to belong. The woman does not want to contain. The man contains. The woman surrenders. But the woman needs to feel listened to and validated and seen, so she can surrender to the alpha male. That is the quality of the alpha male and female. Yes? He possesses, she belongs; he has, she gives herself. When the couple is harmonious, this happens at birth too. The woman needs to surrender, to be in his arms, to feel safe. Otherwise, she cannot give birth. If the woman is in (blows) a state of alert, a state of siege, in a state of... yes, (sighs) she’s too watchful in all directions to see if everything is okay. She cannot give birth. A woman can only give birth in that state you see in this picture. And that state is given by the man. That is why that first lesson was so important, where I invited you to take on the role of the alpha male, because otherwise your woman will not be able to give birth. She cannot give birth in a hostile environment, and hospitals, most of the time, become hostile environments. Maternity wards become hostile environments for women, especially when they go alone. It is not normal for her to go alone. She needs your protection. And now that you know what to do, that is your role—to protect her, to create the environment where she can surrender. Because if she does not surrender, she cannot give birth.

Remember the five secrets. She must be able to relax. She must be able to have intimacy to feel good, yes? Intimacy, sensuality, exactly what I was telling you before. She must be able to connect to her body and her baby. That is, she needs peace and intimacy to do this, then she must surrender and feel safe. All these things have to do with you, with you as a man. If you are not there, the woman cannot give birth because she cannot surrender. It’s very simple, it’s biological, it’s a biological conditioning. And it’s incredible that it works. And it works whether we believe it or not. So, if you do not provide the environment, she will not succeed. That is why, in most labors when the woman is alone and is hunted or cornered by medical staff, by procedures, by things that are aggressive for a woman, especially since a woman is super vulnerable during birth, it cannot work. It ends in a C-section, it ends in complications, it ends in blockages, it ends in something else. And not in birth.

Birth is the most intense rite of passage. It is not only physical, but also psychological and emotional. It is a rite of passage from girl to woman and from woman to mother. That is why, my dear, you need support, you need your man, you need the environment in which you feel safe. You have every right to have all these things. And yes, birth can be experienced with a smile on your face. There are orgasmic births, there are orgasmic births, there are pictures, there are films, there is this picture which, by the way, has sparked a lot of controversy, but it is absolutely superb—the picture in which the woman actually gives birth with a smile on her face and with an expression that shows pleasure and sensuality and intimacy. And yes, she is very condemned because, oh, how can you experience pleasure during birth? But why not? Wouldn’t it be good? (laughs) Of course it would be good. There are orgasmic births. For sure. I am not making this up. You can search the internet for orgasmic births. “Orgasmic birth” in English, you might find it faster. But a woman does not have to suffer as long as she respects her body, her rhythm, her intimacy, and the five secrets of birth. Very simple.

And yes, birth can be unexpected. It can be a lightning birth, and the baby will come when it is time. So it can come in the car. The important thing is to be prepared for any situation. And not just you, but both of you. To be prepared for any situation. And with this course, I guarantee that you will know what to do in any situation. So watch all the videos carefully, because they are precious and offer you information you will not find everywhere, because there are many secrets that I have discovered through my own research. Yes, what if the baby is born on the stairs, in the elevator, on the plane, in the car? It would be the same. You are almost there and will soon find out everything about birth.

Here is the feeling after birth. I can move mountains if I managed this. And I can tell you from my own experience that after the first birth, which was a disaster, at the second birth, I had exactly that feeling. Give me a mountain and I will move it wherever you want, because I conquered birth, which seemed harder than moving a mountain. At the moment of birth, a woman discovers her own power and strength. If she has a beautiful and fulfilling birth, the hormones secreted by her body will continue to help her and will offer a life lived in harmony, without any depression or bad moods. Or as they call it now, you have to have a baby blues. That is, after you give birth, you have to have a kind of depression. But they call it baby blues. No, that’s not right. Depression comes ninety percent from birth traumas. And if it was a beautiful birth and you still fall into depression, maybe you do not have a harmonious relationship. Maybe something in your life is not working harmoniously. Maybe you only think it was a beautiful birth and you stirred up some childhood memories that were not pleasant, but were not conscious either. So there are many factors that can disrupt your hormones. And yes, you will feel it. But a beautiful and fulfilling birth does not come with depression. Because our biological, hormonal program is that if a woman has experienced birth as she should—beautifully and fulfillingly—the hormones do not sabotage her. The hormones will help her have a life, even if it is exhausting. In the first two months with the baby, there will be no depression. That is very important to know.

This is what triumph looks like. This is what a woman who succeeded looks like, even if it was hard, even if there were tens of hours of labor, even if it was a difficult expulsion hormonally, she fulfilled her mission and fulfilled the biological program of bringing a child into the world. Not of performing an operation or witnessing a forced birth, because there, when she does not do the work, the hormones do not help her. So I wish you a beautiful and fulfilling birth, one that brings you revenge or puts a smile on your face. And may you enjoy it, because it is unrepeatable. Thank you. Sonra.