Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner. I am glad to see you again at this course about instrumental births or why women still give birth on their backs in our times. Why? Lying on the back is the position of the dead. No mammal will lie on its back with its paws up to give birth. Not a single mammal—not a cat, not an elephant, no one. They all give birth in a gravitational position, on all fours, or somehow lying on their side, but none lie on their back. You should know that women would not give birth on their backs if they were not forced to. So, where does this trend come from, especially promoted by maternity wards and some doctors, of making women suffer by giving birth on their backs? And yes, we will talk about a certain king, Louis XIV, who interfered in this whole trend of giving birth on the back, and it is a very spicy and extremely annoying story for me, because I hope this king turns in his grave at least once for everything he did to all the women of this world, as we are still giving birth on our backs because of him. Yes, because of him.

We will discuss this when we start the course. But for how long have women been giving birth on their backs and why? This is a question I will answer during the course, and you will see that the obsession of one man can change medical procedures. Wow! The obsession of an influential man. That’s what we are talking about. I guess you can sense where I’m going with this. The idea is that a man can change the way women give birth for the next five hundred years. I find that amazing! Yes. I hope we stop this, and we will talk about the disadvantages of the lithotomy birth, meaning giving birth on the back, lying down. And we will see what disastrous consequences the lithotomy birth has. Because from there to an instrumental birth, that is, with instruments, with forceps or a vacuum extractor that pulls the baby out—yes? Forceps and vacuum extractor that pull the baby out at birth due to the woman’s inadequate position and her inability to give birth in that position. So, we will also see the disadvantages of instrumental birth for both mother and child. So not only is the baby pulled out, but the woman also suffers terribly because her vagina, perineum, and so on are torn. The nightmare of most mothers.

You should know that women today choose cesarean section because of this fear, which has been rightfully instilled, because women give birth or used to give birth in agony, especially those who were uninformed and those who blindly listened to others telling them how to sit, when to breathe, how to breathe, and so on. We are lucky that now, in this period, there is a lot of information circulating, and we can inform ourselves and no longer accept, regardless of who it comes from, inappropriate advice. Yes, and we will also talk about giving birth in gravitational positions. What is the solution for an intact perineum? Well, then—instrumental births because of the trend of giving birth on the back. Although we pride ourselves on using modern obstetric practices. Yes, we have modernized, we no longer give birth like in the Middle Ages. At least that’s what I hear, especially when someone hears that women have started giving birth at home out of fear of the system and standard procedures. Because this, exactly this position, is a standard procedure. This position is inclined. This woman is actually lying on her back with her legs in some supports, and the baby is born on her back. Yes? Anyway, this is the lithotomy position, and it is torture for any woman. And I can tell you myself, because I experienced, at my first birth, this wonderful lithotomy position, and I pushed my eyes out of their sockets to give birth to my child. That’s how hard I pushed from that totally idiotic position, because there’s no way the baby can come out from that position on the back.

Who could have imposed such an unnatural aberration, which forces women into pain and suffering? It’s incredible that in 2023 I am being paraphrased by female doctors whom I suspect are misogynistic because they were very upset that I recommend gravitational birth, and who took the articles I wrote about this and broke them down into 7,000 subchapters and came with their arguments. And I was surprised. I was surprised that their arguments were like: the doctor can see the baby better. The doctor can have a better position when the woman is on her back. And I thought, how selfish can you be when that woman is in agony? Because yes, birth is associated with this idea, that you must give birth in pain. So, especially when the woman is in such an intense moment. Well, the doctor is just at work. He is doing his job. He is not suffering with that woman. So, if the woman were in another position, the doctor would get sciatica because he has to bend a little or because he can’t sit like a king and see everything in front of him?

And when I saw the arguments that woman, who was a doctor, brought, I thought, it’s incredible how I have noticed over time that female obstetricians... are worse than male obstetricians. I don’t know why, but you should know that many women prefer to go to a male doctor, because women among themselves are, I don’t know, unbearable. When I heard the arguments she brought and said that gravity is not good and that the doctor must have faster access to the woman. And the woman must be put in an uncomfortable position rather than the doctor. And I thought, my God, what’s with this woman, how traumatized is she or how ignorant or arrogant must she be to say such a thing? And I apologize if I offend anyone, and I do not apologize if someone takes this course and is a doctor and realizes that what they are doing is not right. I am glad you realized that what you are doing is not right and that the client is king. The patient. The woman is not even a patient when she gives birth, because she is not sick, she is your client. You earn money because she wants to give birth in the hospital where you work.

So, I would be glad... And by the way, I have met many mothers who were also practicing obstetrics and were on the path to becoming gynecologists and gave birth at home because they knew what happens in the hospital. That’s what we are talking about, about this violence among women, about this pride that we use modern practices. We no longer give birth like in the Middle Ages. Well, yes, in the Middle Ages women were not on a pedestal anyway. Yes? But neither are they now. When you, as a doctor, think about how you will sit for eight hours at your job and how you have to position the woman so she suffers so you can see better and have a better grip. My dears, I have seen doctors who got on all fours to assist births, and they were respectable doctors, and the line at their door was endless, because they were doctors with heart, with respect for women, who did not cut perineums and did not perform cesareans on request because it was easier, who came to births and stayed for tens of hours, woke up at night, and went straight to the office in the morning.

Those are real doctors, not the woman who complains that she cannot see well how the baby descends. Really, is that the problem? Oh, I’m getting angry again, I’m getting furious. Yes. Anyway. So these topics really make me huff, because it is not normal for these things to happen in the era we live in, when we demand respect and dignity and humanity and simply common sense. Let’s see who the wonderful King Louis XIV is. Look how cute he was. He was known as the most pompous and richest king. And by the way, in our times he would be called an influencer. Only back then there was no Facebook or Instagram. But this guy really was a super influencer because he had money and had a lot of women. It’s kind of like now. Yes, because even now, men with a lot of money attract all kinds of women. Many. Only he had a fetish. He didn’t just like women. I mean, excuse me, it doesn’t sound right. He didn’t just like making love to women. What he liked most and what probably excited him was to watch women give birth. It excited him tremendously. He had a fetish. So, what did the wonderful king do? Because he was so powerful that in America, an entire state was named after him—Louisiana. OK. Well. He was full of gold. He wore little heels, stockings. Anyway, excuse me, I’m getting sarcastic, but I can’t stand him because I realize what influence he had on our lives as women and on the millions of women who lived after that. And by the way, he had a lot of children. It is said that about twenty were legitimate and probably twice as many were illegitimate, because his hobby was to get them pregnant so he could attend the birth. Because the guy had his pleasure.

So, the unnatural position in which women give birth today is due to this great leader of France. Excuse me, was he a gynecologist? Not even close. No. But he had an obsession, not to call it a fetish, but I already did, to watch his women give birth, because it excited him tremendously. And he was an influencer. Well, so how did women give birth back then? Well... They gave birth in gravitational positions. But how could they give birth in gravitational positions when he had to sit on his throne and indulge his fetish? So he ordered that all women who would give birth in front of him be somehow raised so he could watch directly from his throne. And so it was done. This is the lithotomy position, the unnatural position in which women now give birth, and for three hundred and fifty years we have been giving birth like this, in agony, on our backs. And by the way, with hands tied. So, two years ago, in a public maternity hospital in Bucharest, not a small one, one that is well known, starts with F. Whatever. So you understand I can’t say. The woman was tied at the hands and feet while giving birth. Mind blowing! For me, at least, I couldn’t believe it. Now I found this picture, I actually searched a lot for a picture with those things to put your legs on, but it’s pretty much the same as this. From this you can still push a little. From the other one you can’t even push, and from this position, with the curve of the spine, you give birth. This is the lithotomy position, which is used for surgeries, let’s say, in the anal area, which have nothing to do with gynecology or, well, with gynecology yes, but not with birth. Well. Because the man was a bit obsessed, women were put on such a lithotomy table to give birth, because that way you could see well. It sounds like a story, doesn’t it? A bad story. But that’s the truth. We have been giving birth for three hundred and fifty years like this because this guy Louis had a problem. I find it, wow, outrageous, yes? And every time I bring up this subject, I bristle. In other words, the fetish of a king changed obstetric practices. How crazy is that? What madness! Look how cute he was with his little heels and wigs. Honestly, my libido now is mmmmmm, cute. When I see him, yeah, almost makes me... So this man managed, and I would be glad, maybe this video will someday be bought by that doctor who argued so vehemently with me about the gravitational position. Maybe she will ask herself where these ideas came from and why she thinks she is the most important person at a birth. I understand she went to medical school and studied for over ten years and blah, blah, blah. But who is more important? What is more important when she, anyway, is just doing her job every day, and that woman may give birth once in her life and will remember it forever. Yes, let’s leave it at that.

Let’s see the disadvantages of lithotomy birth. And yes, I’m thinking of writing her an official letter to give her these official statistics, so she understands she is outdated. Anyway, in Romania I have seen that many doctors, after finishing medical school, stick to the same beliefs. They don’t change anything, they don’t go out, they don’t care. You should know that doctors in Romania, in our country, yes, who practice differently—for example, who do water births. Where could you do a water birth when in medical school you were left with the impression that the baby drowns in water? I had such a conversation with someone who was a doctor, and I looked at them and couldn’t believe it. And I wondered if they ever asked themselves how the baby survives for nine months in water, meaning amniotic fluid? I wondered if they ever asked themselves that? I don’t want to sound smart, but these seem like common sense things that you should at least find out. I learned all these things by searching and informing myself, looking for studies. I didn’t go to medical school, but I don’t think you need to go to medical school to know how to give birth, because it’s my body, my baby, my life, my hormones, my business, right? I don’t want to mess it up. So I care to know what I’m doing so it turns out well. So let’s see what the statistics say.

Births in the lying-on-the-back position, exactly lithotomy, reduce the opening of the pelvis by twenty to thirty percent. Why? Because we are sitting on the coccyx, and I can show you this. We are sitting on the coccyx, see? And we flatten this whole area. The opening is very small here. And I will show you and do a demonstration to show you that, in fact, the opening of the pelvis is different when you are NOT lying on your back. Disadvantages of lithotomy birth: it exhausts the mother because she is forced to push upwards. Why? Well, it’s very simple. We have the pelvis, which has an upward curve, you can see it. So when the baby comes out, if I follow the pelvis, it comes out upwards. Well. The woman is now lying on her back. How is my hand oriented? Upwards. If it is oriented upwards, it means the woman lying on her back has to push the baby upwards, exactly in the direction my fingers are pointing. See? Good. If I were to stand the woman up, let me change my position a bit. So she has to push upwards. If I stand up, the baby slides down. You can see it. So everything changes. The woman’s pelvis is like a slide, and I will show you this in the next slideshow we will discuss together. The coccyx has a curve. Look, this is the curve, you can see it by my hand. The curve goes upwards. That’s what the baby is pushed against. Of course she gets exhausted and strained. That’s why there are increased chances of ending up with an instrumental birth with forceps or vacuum extractor.

What is forceps? I’ll show you right away. What is... stylish. Big. The cup has green canopies. Neither is better than the other. Another disadvantage is the reduced oxygen supply to the mother and fetus. Why? Please purchase the birth breathing course, because there I explain why the pushing technique taught by the doctor or midwife, because that’s what they learned in school, is called Valsalva. It deprives the woman and the baby of oxygen, because the oxygen the mother breathes also goes to the baby. So, if we deprive the mother and baby of oxygen because of these forced pushes, this can lead to emergency interventions, meaning emergency cesarean section.

Disadvantages of lithotomy birth are that it prolongs labor by many hours. If the woman were in a gravitational position, she would give birth much faster. I’m telling you, I was in the pushing stage for five hours on my back, exactly as that lady is. That’s why my eyes were bulging. It produces very painful contractions and thus increases the need for anesthesia. I have a special chapter about epidural, because yes, it is the most fashionable anesthesia or analgesia at birth, and in that video I show you that epidural analgesia actually has many side effects for the baby. So I don’t know if it’s the best solution to suffer just to ask for anesthesia. It hinders the natural rotations of the baby during birth, and you will see in the course the rotations the baby makes during birth, and does them alone. But lying on the back, the baby will fit more difficultly into the pelvis, because we flatten the pelvis. It causes pain even after birth, due to compression of the nerve endings in the pelvic area, and the woman gives up control over the birth process, losing control over her body. Why? Because she has no control over her body. Plus, there are a few more disadvantages.

When you are pushing and have to push upwards, against nature. So the baby theoretically comes down this slide and has to go up. The woman has to push because here is the exit. If she were in an upright position, meaning standing, the baby slides down the slide and comes out. The fact that she has to make an effort for the baby to come out upwards, pushed upwards, will swell her face. There could be a retinal detachment, because that happens when you push upwards, and I will teach you how to push correctly. Not like that. Not to strain. When you strain, intracranial and intraocular pressure increases. And then yes, we can worry that we might have a retinal detachment. The face swells, blood vessels burst, fine capillaries in the eyes burst, and the eyes turn red. Sometimes this happens from this pushing, called Valsalva, which is not correct and is even contested in the medical world, it is not recommended. The latest studies show it is not recommended at all. Straining is not recommended in birth, as everyone teaches. The baby is born with difficulty, is born without oxygen, because the mother is already exhausted and can no longer oxygenate herself properly. So all these disadvantages are due to the poor position. Plus, another disadvantage in this position is that the woman’s perineum will be cut. Why? Because, as you can see here, I have the vulva, here the anus, here the coccyx. Here the spine ends. See how it goes? The baby has to be pushed upwards. The spine ends here, so the baby’s head will press on the anus and too little on the vulva. Why? Because it has to be pushed upwards. But first it will press on the anus, and it will press and push so much towards the anus that doctors, because of this unnatural and wrong position, have concluded that the baby does not come out where it should. Well, of course it doesn’t come out where it should, it doesn’t come out the anus, right? So what do they do? They come with scissors and cut to the side. Either this way or that way, so as not to cut towards the anus. If they are not smart. It’s called episiotomy. It’s done without anesthesia. The woman is somewhat numb from the pressure and straining and pain, so it doesn’t matter. She doesn’t even realize when they cut her. And so the baby manages to come out. Good, but is it necessary to mutilate the female genital organs to give birth? No, because if we turned the mother and made her stand up, the pressure would no longer be on the anus, but on the vulva. So I raised the woman to her feet and now I tilt her a bit so you can see where the head will press gravitationally due to the weight. Well, on the vulva, not the anus, because it passes this area and will come out exactly where it should. On the vulva. Good. But we don’t want to understand this, and most births in this position on the back end up as instrumental deliveries, meaning with instruments. Either one of the midwives climbs on the woman’s belly and pushes. And then the baby is forced out and tears, tears the vagina, tears the cervix, tears the labia, tears... So you don’t want to know what it means for someone to lean with their elbow in your belly. I’m not saying it’s not a maneuver that saves lives when it does. I was born with the Christeller maneuver because my mother went into a coma after they stopped her contractions, because she wasn’t giving birth at night, because the doctor wouldn’t come at night to the hospital, and she gave birth in the morning and almost died. And I came out with a fist in the belly, otherwise, yes, she wouldn’t have survived. I’m not saying anything about crisis moments, but these are not crisis moments. These are standard procedures, unfortunately, that are applied even if the woman was not, let’s say, an emergency, no, she was not in danger, and neither was the baby.

So, because of the blockage in the pushing stage and the mother’s inability to continue pushing upwards, instruments are used. Instrumental birth. Look how nice! There is the forceps, which was invented by a family of doctors, Chamberlhuge or Chamberluge, I don’t know exactly. Father and son, an invincible duo who encouraged maintaining the lithotomy position for women at birth. Why? Hmm. Because they had a secret. When the woman was on her back and they were there at that table, the woman couldn’t see what they were doing. Because, being on her back, she couldn’t look, because she couldn’t get up. She was tied up. Yes? So these brothers, this family, father and son Chamberluge, were very much in agreement with what the obsessed Louis XIV instituted, in order to keep for several decades the great secret about the tools they used at the births they attended. No one knew, and it was a secret what they used to get the baby out faster. Because no one could see. The woman couldn’t see. Anyway, she had nothing to say. The birth happened faster. She was sewn up for another two hours, but what did it matter? The baby was healthy. We still go by the same saying today. And the forceps actually grabbed the baby’s head, yes, and pulled it out. That’s what happened in instrumental births. And the madness of these two, father and son, went so far that they even blindfolded the woman giving birth so she wouldn’t see what tools they used to pull the babies out of the womb. My dears, it’s like I opened a book of horror stories. You should know that, unfortunately, our fear of natural birth also comes from the collective subconscious, in which generations of women have suffered terribly at birth because they were not treated as they should have been. Yes, that’s where the forceps was born, and they kept it secret, because it was not allowed in the medical world. And by the way, they were quite vilified afterwards, when it was found out, because it was their most precious secret. Yes? And now let’s see. Here you see how the forceps grabs the baby’s head. Usually it leaves marks. Plus, it doesn’t just leave physical marks, it leaves psychological ones. Children who don’t want to wear hats. Children who can’t stand being touched on the head—it’s because of the traumatizing experience they had when they were pulled out by the head. It’s like picking someone up and pulling them by the head. The idea is that when you pull with the forceps, you have to pull during a contraction, otherwise you break the baby’s neck. Yes? Because the woman... So when the woman doesn’t have a contraction, nothing moves.

That’s why, please watch all my videos about contractions, about what happens during contractions, so you understand these things. Good. And now I want to talk first about the risks of instrumental birth, either with vacuum extractor or forceps. It’s the same thing. The vacuum extractor is, you know that thing for unclogging sinks? That’s about what it’s like, the one that grabs the baby’s head. It grabs, creates a vacuum, and pulls, extracts, pulls the baby by the head. And now the risks for the mother are uterine rupture, which can be fatal, because you are forcibly extracting the baby and can rupture the uterus, because yes, these things happen. Cervical rupture, because the cervix can also be injured when you pull out the baby who should theoretically come out millimeter by millimeter, with each contraction, not yanked out all at once. The baby doesn’t shoot out at birth, the baby is born with a back-and-forth massage that stretches the tissue, stretches the vagina, the vaginal canal. I explain this in the course about contractions and about the woman’s pelvis and vagina. Not yanked and pulled like that. Deep vaginal tears. Meaning, ladies, you get shredded! And for what? For an idiot who said you have to give birth on your back? Yes? Ugh! It can cause urinary or fecal incontinence, yes, because it traumatizes and injures tissues. Problems with the bladder and urethra. It will weaken your pelvic muscles. And yes, because there is also the chance of pelvic organ prolapse. That is, prolapse means when everything falls, sags, yes? For the newborn: cranial fractures. I don’t even want to think about it. Brain trauma or injuries, because it’s about the head, the brain. Epileptic seizures, convulsions, intracranial hemorrhages, facial paralysis. Injuries to the cerebral nervous system. And what I can tell you for sure is that emotional injuries remain for life. Because when you have no right to reply and are pulled out like that, this will also have repercussions on your way of relating, of doing things, of starting things, of finishing things.

But we won’t go into those details. I go into those details in my live online course, where we talk about all possible birth options, to see what we pass on in the birth of your child. Good. But with all this madness that was created because of a fetish, because of some doctors who used forceps, blindfolding their patients so they wouldn’t see what they were using, the woman knows how to give birth to her child and will automatically position herself in comfortable postures that facilitate expulsion. A woman who is immobilized, tied up, is not a free woman. She is treated like a slave. Such a thing must not happen. It is inadmissible. A free woman, who gives birth freely, will always choose gravitational positions. I guarantee it. Gravitational positions. The man sitting on a chair and her somehow supported by his knees, and she is supported by him. And you can see the baby’s head being born. That’s what we are talking about. You can see the amniotic sac. Because that’s what it means to give birth naturally, not to struggle to give birth in a position in which no animal gives birth. But we will not be the only mammals left without brains. But you see, women today are forced, because there is a kind of supremacy in this world, where someone imposes on you, who have to go through that experience, how to give birth. I find it absurd. Yes, anyway. So (let’s take a deep breath) we breathe, we think that we will find exactly the hospital that will not impose on us. And if we don’t find it the first time, we will find it the second, the third time. We will find exactly the doctor who will accept a birth plan and who, in the end, my dear, my dears, you have the right to choose. It is your right, it is your perineum, your sexual organs. You do not have to accept any mutilation. You do not have to accept any position. Well, if I know it hurts me? Well, yes, five doctors can tell me to sit a certain way, if I know it hurts and I feel it hurts, I will not do it. Because it doesn’t seem natural to me. First of all, I will not sit and suffer. And secondly, I will do what I think is good for me, because I am the one giving birth, not them.

So, that’s what it’s about. About rights, about you, about you all, about the man who should not leave his woman alone at birth because disasters like this happen. And when there is someone else with her, they do not behave the same. I guarantee it, because I know how women are treated in the hospital when they are alone and when they are accompanied. So don’t give them the chance to obstetrically abuse your woman, to push her into depression because of how they behaved at birth. It is time to do something for yourself and your family and do not let yourself be humiliated, do not let yourself be manipulated, because it is your life, your perineum, and your child. Thank you.