May your heart be well, my dear! I am Ditta Depner, and today we are meeting for a course about how your baby adapts to your pelvis. This is precisely so you can let go of the fear that your baby might be too big, too small, too square, too fat, too thin, or whatever else you may have been told that would make you think you cannot give birth naturally because of it. So, we will talk about how the baby fits into any type of pelvis, because it is the mother’s pelvis, and no one implanted it there for you to say it doesn’t fit. I will show you images about the physiology of birth and how the baby descends, how it rotates, how it enters the mother’s pelvis, and how it passes through the perineum. You will see that the shape of your pelvis is the perfect slide for your child to come into the light. I will explain how the bones of the pelvis prepare for birth, which is very important, because you will better understand how contractions help the baby advance through the pelvis. I will show you images of how the baby rotates and makes these rotations automatically during birth. You will see how your baby’s skull adapts to the mother’s vagina, which is also automatic, without you having to do anything or even know about it. I will show you how the fontanelles of your baby’s skull function during expulsion. We will talk a bit about the emotional causes of blockages during expulsion for the mother, for you. I will show you pictures of the baby’s head and how it becomes pointed, and how, after birth, it returns to its pre-birth shape. So, this is a course where we will talk about how well the baby knows how to adapt to your pelvis and how well nature actually knows how to bring a child into the world. Perfect! Let’s begin.

The most frequent question is: how can the baby fit through the mother’s pelvis and be born through the vagina? This is the fear of all the mothers I have met. It was my fear too, and it was one of the fears I had when I decided, during my first pregnancy, that I would definitely have a cesarean. It was a decision made long ago, because what I saw around me was clearly about cesarean, not natural birth. Why? Because I was very afraid of exactly this: how can a baby fit through my pelvis and my vagina? Because yes, every woman wonders: Wow, does my body know how to do this? Will my baby fit through there? Should I be narrower, wider, more…? In every way, right? Because this is the biggest fear, many doctors build on this fear, telling mothers that this is why the cesarean was invented. You should know that this is not why the cesarean was invented. The cesarean is an emergency measure to save the life of the mother or the baby, or both. But that is not its purpose. For centuries, fear has been instilled in us, literally, with traumatic births, with women who suffered during birth. All these things have been doubled by the convenience of performing a cesarean, which takes exactly twenty, at most twenty-five minutes, and somehow spares the woman from a potentially traumatic experience, as we know it from movies, social media, mothers, relatives, friends who may have tried and failed. Because, of course, after a defeat, you cannot speak in uplifting or fulfilling terms about a beautiful birth, because you have not lived that experience.

So, it took me several intense moments, in which I lost babies at an early stage of pregnancy. These losses somehow made me reorganize many files in my mind, in which I was absolutely convinced that we did not reach the twenty-first century for nothing, just to struggle through a natural birth, when I could have a cesarean that takes exactly twenty-five minutes, and if I am afraid of pain, I can be fully anesthetized and woken up with the task accomplished. (inhales) Yes, so this is what we are being told and what has been instilled in us over all these years in which… women, in general, are overwhelmed by this fear of birth and of giving birth, and the fear that their baby will not fit through the pelvis. And it’s no wonder, because during pregnancy, if you encounter a doctor who is not necessarily on the woman’s side, but more on the side of his profession, he will repeatedly tell you that it’s better to have a cesarean.

I am not saying it’s better or worse. The idea is, as I say in all my videos, the choice you make or will make—because there will be not only choices in the moment, but also planned choices—at least make them knowingly. I am not saying that cesarean is something bad, nor that natural birth is something good. I am just saying that, when we go through an experience, if we know about that experience, it helps us a lot in changing our perception of it.

So, let’s see what’s going on with the baby and how it can fit into a woman’s pelvis. (inhales and exhales) I found some pictures here that I want to explain to you. (sighs) This is the baby—you see my mouse—before birth, where we see that it is already positioned for birth, and its trajectory is through these internal organs, entering the vagina and being born. So, you can clearly see how the woman’s body, with the spine and bones, yes, with the spine and sacrum, forms a kind of slide for the baby, which it must access to be born. You see, it comes down, then up. Here we see the closed cervix—this is the vagina. In the second picture, we already have a flexed head. The child is already entering the vagina with its head. The cervix is open, dilation has occurred, and the child somehow slides its head sideways, yes, into the mother’s pelvis. Then, in the third image, we see how the child turns, with its back to the mother’s belly, because the head will become pointed. I will explain to you immediately how this happens. And this will be the first part to be born. That is why the child is not born with the crown of the head, but always with the tip here. Here we have the birth of the head. You see, it’s almost out—here we have a kind of crowning, yes, when the baby’s head is almost out. After that, after it comes out in this position, with its back to the mother’s belly, after this expulsion contraction, the child will rotate, actually spin. I will show you that rotation in another image, so you can understand. To fit between the bones of the pelvis. We have the pubic bone and the sacrum, that is, the coccyx or, let’s say, the end of the spine. So, the child is not just pushed out, but also rotates to be born and to fit.

In this image, you see exactly how the child is born, in image A. Then, at the next contraction, it repositions and flexes its head. Then, at the next contraction, it makes this rotation to be born, let’s say, with its face at nine o’clock, if we look at a clock. So, it is born with the head at six o’clock and makes a twist of a few degrees to turn its head and pass its shoulders, yes, through the mother’s pelvis. So, the pelvis is perfectly built to allow the child to make this movement. Very few mothers have had accidents in the pelvic area, but otherwise, there are no problems. Even women with back problems—this does not influence the birth or the expulsion of the child.

Now we have here a section of the pelvis, where we have the spine, the coccyx, yes, which in women is a bit flexible, so it is really the end of the spine. Here we have the pubic bone, yes? And exactly through this opening, the child will be expelled. You can see very nicely, in this image, the spine, which resembles a slide that actually positions the baby so that it can slide easily between the mother’s pelvic bones. Now, depending on how the woman positions herself, the slide will have its shape. If the woman is lying on her back—let’s say this is the back—the slide will be upwards. If the woman is in a gravitational position, the slide will be downwards. Of course, the more the baby has to be pushed upwards, the more complicated it will be to be born, and the more the woman is in a natural, gravitational, vertical position, not horizontal, the more the baby will be able to slide down due to gravity and the normal, physiological shape.

You should know that no woman willingly lies down or is horizontal during birth. Why? Because it doesn’t help. The more you stay on your back, the more the pain increases, and the effort to give birth also increases. Good. What do we have here? We have the mother’s pelvic bones, which open a few weeks before birth so the baby can pass easily. So, how do the pelvic bones open? Very simply. Between these bones, we have cartilage, and this cartilage, two or three weeks before birth, softens. It softens due to a hormone called relaxin. From the name, you can guess what it does. It weakens the strength of this cartilage and softens it, so the pelvic bones can flex. So, the bones open a few weeks before birth, thanks to this hormone, relaxin, which relaxes the pelvis and makes it more spacious. I will show you this on a life-size pelvis at the end of this video.

Now, let’s see how the baby’s head is positioned in the pelvis so that, pushed by uterine contractions, it advances. Why? Contractions propel the baby. Each contraction pulls on the cervix and widens it. That’s what dilation means. And when it pulls up, it presses the baby down. So, the uterus is what expels the baby, millimeter by millimeter, making it advance from the uterus into the vagina. Millimeter by millimeter, through the vagina, until it is born. Now, in this image, we see how everything unfolds according to the possibility of advancement, until the head stops at the mother’s coccyx bones. So, millimeter by millimeter, the baby is already in the mother’s vagina and slides exactly until it reaches the bones of the spine, which give it that slide-like flexion. So, the baby advances according to the space available. Now, when it reaches this end of the road, the baby will make its first rotation to continue advancing.

So, the uterus continues to push, and the baby, so as not to get stuck, will turn sideways, as you saw, to pass through the pelvic bones. You see, it first comes with its back to the mother’s belly, then settles into the pelvis, then starts—see how the shoulders are already aligned with the skull, and here the shoulders start to rotate, and the baby will rotate its head. To understand the stage when the baby is actually on the slide, still in the position in which it will be born, that is, with its back to the mother’s belly. The woman’s perineum will look like this. What you see here is already the outline of the head, and in the vaginal opening, you will already see the baby’s hair. The first thing to appear here is the baby’s head, meaning this part of the skull. The head is born, and you see how the baby flexes its head because it reaches the pubic bone and brings out its face, yes? And this is, let’s say, the first contact with air, when the nose and mouth meet air for the first time. This theoretically marks the baby’s time of birth, because that’s when it changes from the uterine environment to the extra-uterine, aerial environment. From this moment, it only takes a few more contractions for the baby to be born.

Good. After the head is born, the baby will make a twist to fit between the mother’s pelvic bones. So, just like with a corkscrew, when you pull a cork from a bottle, you don’t just pull, you twist and pull. Exactly the same, the baby twists and is pushed out by the uterus, not pulled. So, the baby does not need to be pulled or helped; it knows how to do this on its own and does not need any guidance, coaching, or the various maneuvers that some midwives or doctors, unfortunately, still practice, such as pulling the baby’s head or turning the shoulders. That’s where most problems occur, with dislocated vertebrae, broken shoulder blades, and so on. I don’t want to talk about that because it doesn’t make sense. A proper birth—a proper birth means the baby is not touched. Period. It’s very simple. Birth does not need help, pulling, pushing, or interventions. These rotations are done by the baby alone; it does not need help. As you can see in this picture, when the baby would actually be pulled out by the head, it is a major trauma, first for the baby’s head, and second, most of the time, whoever pulls the baby does not listen to the woman’s contractions. I have said this before and I repeat: when there is no contraction, the baby is motionless, caught in the vaginal muscles, and cannot advance, because everything is tight. The baby only advances when the woman has a contraction. If the woman does not have a contraction and someone pulls the baby, the perineum, vagina, cervix, labia, and other things can tear, and the baby will suffer a major trauma because it will be imprinted with the idea that someone has to pull it by the head or neck, or that it has to do something special. No, the baby can do it alone; it does not need help.

But what have we come to fight for? To have births where we are not somehow helped, where the baby is not pulled, pushed, or otherwise manipulated. So, what the baby needs is not to be rotated, pulled, pushed, or held by the shoulders. All these maneuvers are dangerous for the baby and can cause physical trauma to the mother as well, at the vaginal, perineal level, and so on. So, the baby only needs to be caught at the moment of birth, because otherwise, it can slip. There are many babies who were not caught at the right moment and other things happened. But the baby should not be guided, pulled, turned, or manipulated in general. An intervention-free birth means a birth where no one touches the baby, where, as they say, no helping hand is given because it is not needed. This means respect for the woman and her body, which knows how to give birth, and respect for the baby, who knows exactly everything it needs to know to be born.

Now let’s see how the baby’s skull changes when it reaches the vagina. What you see here is the baby’s skull, which consists of several bony plates, yes? Like plates, yes? Which are not yet joined together, not sutured. You see here, this is a fontanelle, the anterior fontanelle, which you can actually see with the naked eye on a baby, as a depression right here in this area. Then there is another fontanelle here, the posterior fontanelle, which is also not fused. Usually, the fontanelles fuse by the age of two, after the child is born. So, until then, don’t obsess over “oh my, the baby’s fontanelle!” If you go to a specialist who wants to sell you drops to make the fontanelles fuse faster… in fact, they are just selling their medicines, not giving you correct advice. The fontanelles should not fuse, and it is not normal for them to fuse before the age of two, and the baby’s body knows very well what to do.

So, we have bones that are not fused, and for this reason, they will not remain as they are now. And if we have a biparietal diameter of nine and a half centimeters, this diameter changes because these bones overlap. So, from two adjacent bones, since the fontanelles are not fused, they can compress and reduce the biparietal diameter. So, it doesn’t matter how big your baby’s head is measured to be, because it doesn’t matter. The baby’s head does not stay the same at birth. Why? Because when it enters the mother’s pelvis, these fontanelles overlap and create a smaller biparietal diameter. So, it really doesn’t matter what you were told or what they plan to tell you about measuring the baby’s head to see if it fits. That is another big misconception, because the baby’s head fits, as it adapts to the mother’s pelvis.

Here you can see again those bony plates, yes, which, because the fontanelles are not fused, can overlap. These go under the larger ones and overlap. That’s why the forehead is flatter and the back of the head becomes pointed, yes? Because the forehead flattens, the baby is born first with the head, then passes into the vagina and towards the exit. The fontanelles in the newborn are open and soft. They only fuse after the age of two, exactly as I told you. The difference between a baby at birth, yes? And here I will show you real pictures, not just drawings, of babies after birth and after, let’s say, a day or two after birth, when the skull returns to normal and the baby no longer needs to have a pointed head.

This is the newborn’s head, which becomes pointed at birth to adapt to the mother’s vaginal canal. You see it here? The back part is more pointed precisely to reduce the diameter and allow for a quicker birth. Here you see a baby in the womb or outside, where you can actually see the bones, yes, how they are positioned, and here, from the moment the baby enters expulsion, how the brain is compressed and how the bones overlap to form this pointed shape of the head. And you see, from a pre-birth diameter, how the diameter is reduced during birth.

So, as you can see, we are built to be able to be born even through the narrowest vagina. The idea of instilling fear in women that you are too small, too big, too narrow, too petite—these are simply just reasons to make you lose confidence in yourself. Know that no baby has ever been left inside. And if labor stalls, all blockages during expulsion are emotional in nature, because, theoretically and practically, we have no bone or obstruction that would function during birth to prevent the baby from coming out. It is about emotions that block the physiology of birth, and then, when the block comes, it is only from the mother’s unresolved trauma, whether conscious or unconscious.

So, practically, all babies can be born. Theoretically, a woman can get stuck in labor, in expulsion, only if she has an unresolved emotional issue. It could be a fear of not succeeding, it could be a fear from her own birth, which she experienced when she was born and maybe where there was a blockage, a blockage of her mother, which she felt as a baby. It could be a sexual abuse from childhood or later, which effectively blocks expulsion, again from a fear or a physical, emotional, psychological, or verbal trauma, yes? It depends on the woman’s perception.

What I can guarantee is that the more a woman has worked on herself, meaning the more she has explored her fears, healed her childhood blockages, resolved her traumas and abuses, the easier and smoother her birth will be. So, blockages during expulsion clearly come from the emotional side. And here I want to tell you the real story of a woman who, during pregnancy—I don’t know where she got this fear from, but it was simply a fear, probably from her own birth, I couldn’t find out because I didn’t speak to her after the birth. She was very afraid. She wanted to give birth at home, but was very afraid that the baby would have a problem and would need to be resuscitated at the hospital. Only at the hospital.

At that time, now, oh, ten years ago or so, I didn’t know much about trauma, but from what she told me, I realized that this fear would create blockages exactly during expulsion with her baby. She was a psychologist, so I thought, okay, she probably knows much better than I do what to do, and I said it’s not an extraordinary idea to want to give birth at home with this fear, because this fear might not let you finish the birth at home. But yes, she had a team, a doctor, a midwife, and a neonatal nurse, so she basically moved the hospital home, because it was possible. Guess what happened? Did she give birth at home until the end, or what happened during expulsion, when the baby was passing through the vagina and needed to be born? Well, she got stuck. The baby got stuck during expulsion. She waited about four or five hours, which is a huge amount of time, until everyone there assisting her said: “My dear, it’s clear, even though you have contractions, the baby is stuck in the vagina. It might be a good idea to go to the hospital, because it seems we have no other option.”

After those four and a half, five hours, she decided to go to the hospital, seeing that indeed the baby could not be born. And guess what? The moment she set foot in the hospital, the baby was born within a few minutes. And now the question is: What blocked her from giving birth at home? Because she had all the safety and resuscitation, assistance, doctor, neonatologist, gynecologist, midwife. She had them all there. But, you see, that sense of safety did not exist at home, and her fear was so great that it did not allow her to give birth. Why? Because it was a fear she could not control from the outside, because her body simply listened to what she felt: the fear of giving birth at home, which did not feel safe. That is, she was not sure that the baby would not need all sorts of interventions. As soon as she arrived at the hospital, the fear subsided, even subconsciously, and the baby was born in less than fifteen minutes. So, what do you think? Did the baby have a problem, or was it the mother’s fear? Of course, the baby had no problem. It was just her imprint and fear, probably from an initial program she had as a baby, or acquired during her life, because she worked in a maternity hospital. And this is the example I usually give, so you can understand how much the emotional side influences birth and how much it dictates how the baby’s birth will unfold.

Here you actually see the expulsion. And here is the hand, probably of the father, waiting for the baby. So, there is no need to pull. The woman is in that long contraction where the head is being born. And here, you see, indeed, the picture is strange, but it is not photoshopped, it is real, with a baby whose head looks dislocated. Yes, but that’s how it happens. The first part to be born is this, then the baby’s head compresses, and this pointed shape looks quite dramatic. Yes, so, a few hours after birth, the fontanelles allow the newborn’s head to return to its initial shape. Nothing needs to be done. The baby recovers on its own. By the second day after birth, the head will be round and normal again.

So, you should not be afraid of how the head looks, because everything will be exactly as it should be. Here is another baby. But don’t be alarmed by the blood. It was probably a birth with an episiotomy, or something else, but everything returns to normal a few hours after birth. What you see on the baby, this white creamy layer, is the vernix, which will be absorbed into the skin a few hours after birth. Vernix is that protective layer that helps the baby not to get waterlogged during the nine months spent in amniotic fluid. It’s like when we take a hot bath for seven hours, and our skin wrinkles and softens. The same happens to babies. Their skin is protected from excessive softening by this vernix.

Here you see again—I found you more pictures. Here, this is a normal photo, zoomed in, of what a baby looks like immediately after birth. So you can see that the head adapts to the pelvis, and thus a completely normal woman, without any special vagina, gives birth to her child without any problems. And here is a real birth, a real photo, where the baby’s head looks a certain way immediately after birth. And here you can see again how pointed the baby’s head is immediately after birth. This is less than ten minutes after birth, when the baby was immediately put to the breast. Because that’s how it should be done.

So, my dear, now that you have learned this information, you can trust the birth process, because your baby’s body knows exactly what and how to do, because nature has taken care of all these aspects. Thank you, and I’ll see you at the next lesson about birth.