May your heart be well, my dear! I am Dita Depnar and today I will talk to you about episiotomy, or what an episiotomy means. Or, the most brutal procedure for a woman during childbirth. An episiotomy is that cut, actually a kind of widening of the vaginal opening, so that the baby can come out faster. You will see that the episiotomy is pointless and is a mutilation of the female genital organs at birth, and I advocate for... stopping these obstetric violences against women during childbirth. Because you will see that, anatomically, a woman does not need to be widened in order to give birth; the anatomy is perfect, and the perineum was perfectly designed to allow a baby to be born. So, the woman’s perineum is sacred. This cut—you will see how and when it is performed—is a very Romanian practice. Unfortunately, in Romania it is performed in ninety-five percent of cases, of births, because, yes, women give birth on their backs. There is no respect in Romania for the woman’s perineum during childbirth, and the terrifying incidence of episiotomy in almost all births in Romania is also caused by the unnatural position in which women give birth in Romania: on their backs, on that table, almost tied down, which is inhuman.

Because, dear women, you have rights during childbirth that should be respected, because that is natural. You have the right not to have your female genital organs mutilated. So yes, I will talk about episiotomy, or the cutting of the perineum during childbirth. Let’s see what the woman’s perineum means. What do we have here? We have a bony pelvis, with muscles. This is the perineum. What you see here is the vaginal opening. Here you have the vagina, and above we have the uterus where the baby grows. What you see here is the vaginal opening, the anus, all the ligaments and all the muscles that make up the perineum, which is one of the most flexible and, let’s say, vascularized areas. And somehow, the woman’s perineum is the second gateway into this world for the baby. The first gateway is the cervix, when the child leaves the uterus. So that is the first gateway, and the second gateway is after leaving the uterus, entering the vaginal canal, and at the end of the vaginal canal we have the vulva, yes, through which birth happens. This is the second gateway, or the woman’s perineum is the second gateway into this world for the child.

The woman’s perineum is sacred. Just as an orchid resembles the woman’s perineum. We are like flowers. Your perineum is a flower and is perfectly prepared for the passage of the baby. It does not need corrections, adjustments, widenings, or other totally barbaric procedures. The perineum does not need to be cut for you to give birth to your child. Let’s see what a more plastic perineum looks like, yes? Here we have the pelvis, here we have the clitoris, here is the urethra—where we urinate—the vagina, which is perfectly constructed to allow a baby to pass through. And here we have the anus or rectum. The vaginal opening or vulva is, as I said, the second birth gateway and is just as elastic, because it will be additionally vascularized. That’s why the tissues become softer, more malleable, and stretch very easily. Here I have shown you several images of what a vulva might look like, because there are many types, many shapes, and all are perfectly constructed to give birth to a child. You see there are wider, smaller, thinner, narrower, more spread, longer, puffier, thinner labia. So, all possible variants exist. The idea is this: regardless of appearance, your perineum is capable and will prepare for the birth of your child. I really want you to notice, two or three weeks before birth, how the perineum changes color, becomes darker, let’s say blacker, browner. Why? Because the body is preparing for birth. From the moment preparations begin, the vulva is more vascularized, which will also give it a different, darker color. That’s why, when you look with a mirror or your husband tells you how it looks, he will be able to confirm that yes, it has darkened. Hmm, yes?

What happens when it becomes more vascularized? The tissues soften, there is better blood flow there, not external, internal, yes? That’s why the tissues become soft and flexible, malleable, meaning much easier to stretch, precisely so your baby can pass exactly through those places. Well, I apologize for the image, but you need to know exactly what an episiotomy means. When you are close to expulsion and the baby’s head is already visible, the doctor inserts two fingers into the vulva and a pair of scissors, yes? And cuts to the left or right side. Cuts your vulva. Exactly. So, why not cut straight down? Because it’s too dangerous, things could get damaged toward the anus. So, they cut median. Usually, all cuts, the majority of cuts, at least in Romania, are not consented to by the woman. So, the woman doesn’t even know what is happening to her. Because of the pressure, she won’t realize someone is coming and cutting. The problem with this cut with scissors is that the scissors do not avoid important blood vessels, but cut straight through whatever is there. Whereas, if you ever think, “Well, maybe I’ll tear,” OK, a tear is much friendlier to the tissues and avoids important blood vessels, because it tries to leave as few problems or marks as possible, yes? So, it’s one thing for the perineum to tear, when the tear avoids important blood vessels, and another to cut. The problem when you do an episiotomy is that you have to sew, to get the baby out as quickly as possible so you can sew the woman back up, so she doesn’t bleed. Because this cut bleeds. So, from the moment a woman receives an episiotomy, whether consented or not, she will have to hurry, and the process will be rushed just so they can sew. To sew, the placenta must first be delivered. So, there’s no more letting the cord pulse, no more doing this or that. Things are rushed because blood loss is significant with an episiotomy.

Huh, I’m glad I changed the image, because honestly, that image gives me chills. What I want to say is that there must be respect for every woman’s perineum. And I’m not referring to you, but to the doctors who perform these episiotomies as if this were normal. A woman deserves respect, especially for such an important and intimate place as the perineum. My dears, I have had many cases where after that episiotomy—the stitching was not done properly, and the woman then suffered during every sexual contact, which is not normal, because it is not normal to ruin a woman’s perineum, to ruin her love life, to ruin her marriage, to ruin her relationship. That is unacceptable. Just because we are too lazy or just because we are in a hurry? Or just because we don’t understand why the woman’s perineum should not be cut? I find this to be a lot of ignorance, especially from medical staff who so easily perform these episiotomies, as if this is normal. No, this is not normal. No one has the right to cut your perineum. And yes, children can be born naturally, without tears and with an intact perineum. Yes, without episiotomies, without threats, without obstetric violence. The woman’s perineum does not need to be cut to give birth to a child of any weight or size, because when the child is born, even if it is, let’s say, heavier, that does not mean the birth will be harder. Depending on the position the woman is in, the child will be born just as easily, if she knows not to remain lying on her back.

Very simple. And now, here in the image, you can see how the perineum can be cut mediolaterally or with an episiotomy cut in this way. Here you have the vagina, the clitoris, the baby’s head, and the anus. So, the woman’s perineum does not need to be incised for a child to be born. The fact that ninety-five percent of women in Romania are cut comes from the mismanagement of birth, where the woman is forced, even today, in 2022, to give birth lying on her back. What does it mean to give birth lying on your back? When you give birth lying on your back, the baby’s head presses more on the anus area. Because, with the woman on her back, she has to push the baby upwards, which is madness. How can you push the baby upwards, to make so much effort, when just by raising the woman to her knees or standing or on all fours, you would ease the birth a thousand times. So, a woman will only give birth on her back if forced. This position on the back, or lithotomy position, is lying on the back with legs up. It is an un-anatomical and completely wrong position, which, yes, has no other solution than episiotomy for birth, because it is not natural, because it seems the baby cannot be born. Yes, because the woman is pushing the baby upwards. That is the biggest mistake. Do you see it? She is supporting the head. She is lying on her back, holding her knees, and, poor thing, she is breathing as you see. Well, exactly this maneuver or position consumes an enormous amount of the mother’s energy, and the effort the mother makes in this completely unnatural position is enormous and unjustified. If someone thought to raise her or put her on all fours, the woman would give birth in two minutes. You don’t have to hold her head, you don’t have to make her strain, because it is a useless waste of energy. She is exhausted because she cannot give birth in this position, because she is all tense and because we do not give birth like this. Have you ever seen an animal, a mammal that gives birth to its young like us, lying on its back with its legs up to give birth? No, there is no such thing. And you will see in a video who could have invented such an unnatural position, which no woman would ever take. No woman would lie on her back to give birth. But I will tell you, in fact, who came up with this trend of putting women on their backs. Because this positioning of the pregnant woman is a positioning that unnaturally prolongs labor. So, instead of birth lasting two or three hours, it can last twelve, fifteen, twenty, thirty hours, because the woman is not in a position where she could give birth easily. It is the most unnatural position, with the woman lying on her back, legs bent, as you see here, yes? But this is the modern woman who gives birth on her back, lying down. And, as I said, no mammal puts itself in this death position to give birth, but settles into comfortable, gravitational positions.

So then... Why? Why do we give birth on our backs? Why, even though not only theory but practice confirms that women do not give birth easily on their backs, do we still give birth lying on our backs? Because we are forced to. Because all those who practice modern obstetrics nowadays (pause in speech) force us to lie on our backs, and this position on the back turns the client or pregnant woman into a patient. The patient who must stay in bed. A pregnant woman does not have to lie on her back. That’s why the most painful contractions are those experienced on the back. That’s why a woman will never stay on her back during labor, but will move, will try all sorts of positions, will be on all fours, will prefer to hang, to be in water, to be in vertical positions. Because, as I told you, no mammal puts itself in this death position to give birth to its child. We will talk more in another mini-course about the woman’s pelvis, so you understand why I forbid you to give birth on your back. Because you will thank me, because otherwise they will mutilate your perineum. Thank you, and see you at the next course.