Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I am glad to see you again at the course about stem cells. Today I want to talk to you about stem cells and where they are formed, because, to everyone’s surprise, stem cells are not formed in our bodies at the beginning, but are transferred after birth only during the twenty to twenty-five minutes of placental transfer from the placenta to the baby. Most parents do not know these things, which is why they do not focus on the idea of, “Wait a minute, who are we giving these stem cells to and why aren’t we keeping them for the child?” Anyway, this subject is extremely controversial, especially since there is a huge business behind these well-marketed stem cells. I will talk about the transfer of stem cells through placental blood and when this transfer occurs. Because if we do not allow the umbilical cord to pulse after birth, the child is simply deprived of their rightful stem cells. I will talk about, and actually explain to you, what stem cells are and what role they play. We will also discuss how important this transfer of stem cells is into the newborn’s body immediately after birth. And we will also talk about the stories that are, in the end, just stories. Stories very well crafted to convince you to donate those stem cells, since you don’t even keep them for your child, which is also a story, instead of keeping them for him and storing them where? In his body, where they should remain. We will talk about the stem cell bank business, because it is a huge business, as I was saying. We will talk about how these cells are collected and how well trained all those people are who want to hook you and convince you that you are irresponsible if you do not collect those stem cells. And we will talk a bit about the standard practice in hospitals and the fact that hospitals are allies of those marketing agents who collect cells for what reason? Again, for the same reason, for money. And we will talk about the harmful disadvantages for a newborn at the time of stem cell collection. A very controversial subject, so let’s begin. And please, if you want, take notes. And I would advise you to also search the internet. There are videos about stem cells, not the ones sold by hospitals. I think in Romania we have, I believe, a show about stem cell banks and the kind of business they do. I will also tell you everything I know about stem cells, so that you can make the best decision for you and your family.

Good. In the minutes after birth, along with that blood or plasma, stem cells are transferred into the newborn’s body for the first time. Why for the first time? Because these stem cells do not exist in the child’s body; they have formed in the placenta over nine months. So what those stem cell collection companies actually collect is what belongs to the child, his right, his health, his stem cells. So we have in the two arteries and in the veins—you can see them here. The arteries are thinner, those red arteries, and the vein is thicker. From this vein, at the end of birth, after the child is born, the placenta will send about 150 milliliters of blood, meaning plasma, together with stem cells. These stem cells are cells that can transform into anything, which is why they are the most valuable cells and why it is so important for these cells to reach the child’s body. Because it costs nothing, you do not need to find a doctor to introduce them into the child’s body, and you do not need to be a millionaire to afford stem cells. Because they would naturally enter the child’s body and you would give him the chance to have everything he needs for health, for the repair of, let’s say, tissues that may have been affected after a more intense birth. So you really don’t have to worry that you don’t have money to buy those stem cells. The irony is that we are not buying anything. We... donate, and if it were a donation, it would be free. Not only do we donate them for free, but somehow this industry has found a way to fool people so much that you pay to donate them? What are we talking about? Doesn’t that sound strange? I mean, you give what belongs to the child, it is his right, his property, and you also pay money for them to collect them and do whatever they want with them and store them, as they say, in a stem cell bank, where you never have and never will have any guarantee that you will get back your child’s own cells. That is another story, because usually, if you ever ask for them and if you have enough money to ask for those stem cells and find a doctor who knows how to operate... Because it’s pointless for them to give you the stem cells, you don’t take them with water or—it’s not such a simple process, right? Especially since they are cryogenically stored or however they use them, but you pay to donate them and to get rid of them. And if you want them back, because maybe you or your child will need them someday, again you have to take money out of your pocket. I think whoever came up with this idea and designed it was super intelligent, because a normal person, who thinks and does not let themselves be threatened and does not fall into that trap of “We sell you some fear so we can collect your own stem cells for a lot of money,” will say: “What nonsense!” I mean, how come you take something from me and don’t give me money for it, a lot of money, but you ask me for money from my own pocket after I give them to you as a gift? Yes, that’s what it’s about. And by the way, because I don’t know if you watched the video about the umbilical cord, it’s a very important video to understand a bit about what this is about. The umbilical cord, which contains these three blood vessels, the two arteries and the thick vein, is surrounded by a very thick cartilage, similar to the cartilage in the ear, so it cannot bend, it cannot be strangled, because it is very tough. This does not allow the three blood vessels to be strangled or—even if the umbilical cord makes a knot, if the baby moves in a special or very energetic way throughout the pregnancy, the baby still cannot stop the blood flow from the placenta to his body. Because the placenta will always send oxygen and nutrients through the umbilical cord, and the baby sends back to the placenta the waste, everything he did not use, and the mother takes these waste products into her own bloodstream.

Good. As I was saying, stem cells are intelligent cells that can replicate themselves, can transform, can adjust organs, and can repair any kind of damage after birth. I once wondered why these stem cells are not already in the child’s body at birth? Well, it’s very simple and absolutely logical. While the baby is in the womb, he has no kind of, let’s say, brutal, harmful, intense, serious experiences, because he spends those nine months only with the mother’s emotions, with the mother’s feelings, and apart from the emotional turmoil the mother experiences, he does not have physically difficult moments to go through. So, when he is born, the baby goes through the most intense period, perhaps of his life, in which he is effectively propelled out of the intrauterine environment into an extrauterine environment, and it is said that being born is not easy. Probably we all have some memory, not probably, for sure, we all have an unconscious or subconscious memory from our birth. Only our body was so well made that it receives support after birth for any kind of damage, let’s say, from the intensity of birth. Stem cells enter the child’s body only after he is born, to regulate different functions, organs, and damage after birth. Maybe, I don’t know, a microhemorrhage, yes, at the skin level. Or some dysfunctions, yes? I don’t know, because births are not so intense as to damage organs. But our mechanisms are unsuspected and very intelligent, so as to cope with any situation. So a stem cell can replicate exactly as you see in this image. If, for example, a problem occurred at the cellular level during birth or pregnancy, after the baby is born, the stem cells go exactly there and replicate and multiply and transform exactly where needed and where, yes, the need arises. Thus, organs such as the lungs, heart, liver, thymus, intestine, liver can be repaired—especially since, think about it, the liver is brand new in the newborn. He does not use his liver during pregnancy, nor his stomach, except that some amniotic fluid passes through the stomach and he urinates, but he does not use his stomach for digestion. All these things are somehow done by the mother and the placenta, which takes care of the baby. That’s why the baby sends the waste back to the placenta through the umbilical cord. So stem cells are absolutely necessary for any child. The fact that we do not know this and the fact that we do not know how important it is to let the umbilical cord pulse after birth is a big problem, because we are actually depriving the child of health, depriving the child of his own stem cells. But we do everything possible, after some people fool us, to come up with thousands of dollars to pay banks to take these cells that are so vital for the child and nothing reaches the child. Because stem cells are collected in the very first seconds after birth, after which the cord is cut, as if we do it on purpose. Sometimes I wonder if someone is doing something on purpose. Yes. That is precisely why stem cells are transferred into the newborn’s body only after birth. And here you see how a stem cell can transform into a cell such as, I don’t know, a sperm cell. It can transform into a cell that will eventually form a muscle or a cell that will be for, um, how do you say, fat cell. So stem cells can transform into fat cells, bone cells, red blood cells, yes? Nerve cells, epithelial cells, immune cells, cells of the immune system. So, the stem cell can take any form where needed. So they are super valuable. That’s why they are so well marketed, because it seems someone needs them. Because I don’t know if you’ve ever wondered what happens to all those billions of stem cells collected and stored? Because very few, I don’t know if one percent of the people who collect them ever ask for them back? Not only for financial reasons, but for many other reasons. Because, in fact, even those who speak so nicely about fear and about stem cells, because that’s how they sell them, by inducing fear, admit that they can only be used for certain diseases. And usually, when you need something, they don’t match. And no, the transplant cannot be done. That’s why stem cells are so coveted, that a real war has started, with very complex marketing plans to obtain them. Yes, as I was saying, what do they use them for? Because I think a lot about this aspect, especially since I know there is a whole business with blood donation and many other topics on this subject, but I don’t want to get into them. Currently, there are hundreds of stem cell banks that want to store them at any cost—and not at any cost, at your expense, because you pay for them. Many years ago, around 2010–2011, I was also contacted by certain stem cell companies, who told me that I would receive bonuses if I recommended them and if I sent couples to them. And I would receive about 60 dollars for each couple, just for telling them some things, not for convincing them to go and collect. At that moment I realized, wow, how well these people are organized and how well they sell, let’s say, their stories. I did not agree, because I have never been the type to side with anyone but the child and the mother and the parents, so I was not an ideal client and I refused them all. The irony is that three of those stem cell banks, today, after, let’s say, thirteen years, no longer exist on the market. And I wonder what happened to them? Where did they disappear? Where did millions of liters of blood, of stem cells from those children, go, from whom, so to speak, a few milliliters of blood were collected from their blood and who were deprived of their stem cells from the very first moment after birth...

The problem is as follows. To collect stem cells, they have to cut the umbilical cord, and from the moment it is cut, the child no longer has any chance to recover the stem cells that are not collected, because they only collect a few milliliters of blood and plasma with stem cells, which then go to their laboratories. The problem is that the rest of the cells remain in the placenta. The placenta, which is then marketed for its benefits and used to make cosmetic creams and other things. You realize that there are unused stem cells in the placenta. The problem is when the child does not receive his stem cells. So what you are being sold—if you haven’t already bought the big package, I would be glad. Many years ago, in 2010, the most expensive collection packages cost at most 120–130 dollars. Now it’s like with cars. More and more expensive. You want the Gold package? You pay up to 600–800 dollars, which is not justified, because they only sell you dreams and empty promises, because, in fact, they are still collecting your own child’s cells and selling you promises. And not only do you pay 600–800 dollars, but you also pay a fee, as if you were getting car insurance, a Casco, for example. You pay monthly money for, I don’t know, a maintenance fee or a freezing fee—I don’t want to be mean, but indeed, empty dreams are sold in this business. And I am not the only one saying this. I have spoken with people who have worked and were very well paid by these collection companies and they also admitted that there is a lot of lying. But the marketing is very well organized. And to become one of their agents, they train you for at least a few months, so you can have the right sales pitch, meaning to speak extraordinarily well and not let anyone challenge you on any topic. So yes, stem cell banks convince us to leave our babies without these intelligent cells. They collect some, and the rest remain in the placenta, because immediately after collection the umbilical cord is cut, if not already before. So, who loses the most in this equation? Your own child. But yes, no one tells you, because no one has, let’s say, an interest.

Here is how an umbilical cord, as you see here, is clamped, meaning cut. A catheter is inserted into one of the blood vessels, probably the vein because it is the thickest. You see that the catheter is also quite thick, and the blood that still pulses from the placenta is collected. So, the placenta actually pulses and the blood spurts into the child’s body. Only, with the umbilical cord cut, nothing spurts into the child’s body, but into their jars, into their banks, where no one knows what happens to them. The collection is done, of course, at your expense, from your pocket. That’s how well organized the stem cell scam is. The standard practice in maternity hospitals is to cut the umbilical cord in the first twenty seconds after the child is born. So the child doesn’t even have time to recover, doesn’t even take a proper breath. We already have twenty seconds since we started this topic about maternity practices. The child can’t even realize what happened. What happens if we cut the umbilical cord at twenty seconds? If the child has not yet regulated his breathing through his nose, which, by the way, he has just managed to do for the first time, he would have been helped by the umbilical cord, because through the cord more oxygen would come to oxygenate his brain and help the baby cope and adjust. So, the pulsing system of the cord is a support system. By cutting that support system in the first twenty seconds after birth, we are handicapping the child and forcing him to switch abruptly to nasal breathing, yes? Without that support that would have been vital. And I think I mentioned in the course about cutting the umbilical cord, but there is a case where a premature baby, because preemies do not have the same strength as a full-term baby, was resuscitated for seven minutes, but his umbilical cord was not cut. Let me tell you a secret: a person, whether a child, baby, preemie, or full-term, if they do not receive oxygen to the brain for two or three minutes—this is the maximum—their functions deteriorate. Even if, let’s say, they can be saved and resuscitated and recover, they will be left with lifelong sequelae, with important functions that will no longer work, that will not function as they should, because the child did not receive oxygen to the brain. The fact that this child was resuscitated for seven minutes—so for seven minutes after birth he did not breathe—but the doctors, so intelligent, left the umbilical cord to pulse while resuscitating him, and after seven minutes, when he started to breathe on his own, that child lived without any problem and without sequelae, without becoming a vegetable, without any problems, neither motor nor physiological, nothing. And he lived as a normal person. Why? Because during those seven minutes, the umbilical cord provided oxygen to the brain. If they had cut the umbilical cord, the child would have had no chance of survival. And even if, let’s say, by some miracle, they managed to resuscitate him after seven minutes, it would have been too late. That child would have become a vegetable, needing lifelong care, bedridden, without any functions, functioning, yes? So, because they left the umbilical cord, that child had a chance at life.

So, why are we the only species in the world that rushes to cut the umbilical cord, when no other species does this? Animals do not instinctively do this, because with animals, you don’t have to attend the birth for everything to be fine. Animals wait. Animals do not cut the umbilical cord after the baby is born. We are the only ones, and this practice is not old. In fact, it is modern. Until then, I want to tell you that in Romania, at the Faculty of Medicine in Târgu Mureș, in 1996, and I know this from reliable sources because I had someone who graduated and learned that the umbilical cord is left to pulse until it no longer pulses, meaning fifteen to twenty minutes. That’s what they learned in school. That’s what the old obstetrics textbooks said. After that, the person who told me about this became a resident and started working and finished school and started working as a resident doctor in the hospital. And he asked: “Sir, why do you cut the umbilical cord, since we learned to leave it?” And he was told that if he didn’t follow the rules, he might have to change jobs. Because that’s the practice, that’s the standard practice. The fact that there are hundreds of studies showing that even three minutes matter... Because who should really be bothered, physiologically speaking, that the child takes his stem cells and receives those 150 milliliters of blood and plasma, otherwise he develops iron-deficiency anemia? What are we talking about? So this standard clamping is barbaric, because it leaves the newborn without support for his first breaths of air through his lungs. Exactly as I was saying. He is left without that perfect support system, left without oxygen for the brain for a few seconds because of the shock. Because you cut off his air, you cut off his oxygen. The child breathes for the first time. Why couldn’t this transition be a smooth one? I don’t understand. I don’t understand why we rush. I don’t understand why we rush to collect cells, instead of letting the cells enter the newborn’s body. We rush to slap him on the bottom to scare him even more and make him take a breath, instead of letting the umbilical cord pulse to support him and make this transition gentle. I don’t know, it’s as if we torture these children to be born and grow up... I don’t know, just to traumatize them. I don’t know. I keep thinking. We leave him without his stem cells. We leave him without 150 milliliters of his own blood. We leave him in a state of shock. We leave him to cry in despair. We leave him to think he landed on the wrong planet, not knowing what is happening to him and why he is being treated this way. And we are happy when the child cries. I wrote an article a while ago, in which I said that not all children who are born must cry and crying is not necessarily a sign that everything is fine. Crying in this case is because there is trauma there. There are children who do not cry, there are children who smile. But yes, indeed, it will not be a traumatic birth, as happens in ninety-five percent, statistically speaking, of women who give birth with birth trauma. So-called moderate trauma, meaning forty-five percent. Severe trauma, eighty-five percent, a bit less. Yes? But honestly, do we have to give birth with trauma? Do we have to treat women as if they were the lowest people on this earth, especially at key moments like childbirth? Why does obstetric violence exist on this earth and we are still in the twenty-first century? Yes, all these questions, I don’t know, seem to have no answer. But our luck is that we ask ourselves. Our luck is that we find out, that we self-educate. Because, you see, nowhere in school does anyone teach you these things. That’s why I think this birth preparation education is vital for all women in the world. That’s why I hope this message reaches as many couples as possible, so you can demand your right to normal treatments, your rights and those of your child.

Thank you for watching.