Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I am glad to see you at the basic course. Today I will talk to you about the secrets of birth. This course is dedicated to you and your partner, because together you conceived this child, and today we will lay the foundations on which all our interactions will rely and be built, with information and everything you need to know about birth, pregnancy, and life with a baby. In my opinion, this is the most important course of all, aside from the many others that will follow—you will see them too. You will see that if you go through this one and understand it, you will find logic in all the physiological processes that occur during birth. What do physiological processes mean? Everything your body, dear mother or future mother, knows how to do. So let's talk about the secrets of gentle birth, because gentle birth must become once again a happy and fulfilling event for you as a mother and for your child. And of course, when the mother is happy, believe me, the whole family is happy. Men know why the relationship works when the woman is happy. The same applies in a family. No matter how small or large it is, if the two main members, the father and the mother, are happy, believe me, everything works and works perfectly. So the atmosphere between you two, now that a child is coming, matters most. That is why this is one of the secrets I share with you, that you need to know, because most couples are not prepared for this birth together and this life together after the baby arrives. Most women have terrible birth experiences or have at least heard a terrible birth story from a friend, or from their mother's birth, or from a close relative's birth, where the woman suffered, where the child was taken away, was somehow left alone for two or three days in the hospital, where the period after coming home was a disaster and no one knew what to do with a crying baby. And yes, you will learn that babies cry when their basic needs are not met. And these basic needs are not just feeding and changing diapers, but also many emotional needs, for closeness and to feel safe. Guess where? In their parents' arms. So you can hire ten thousand nannies, seven thousand mothers-in-law, thirty thousand relatives, and five little black or Chinese or whatever you want, but they will never be able to replace the love and affection of a mother that the child instinctively seeks and which you cannot replace. Clearly. Good. That is why, let’s see how we can make this event become something you enjoy talking about, not to vent about trauma, but to empower other women to claim their right to a beautiful and fulfilling birth. Here, I present to you some women who have had beautiful and fulfilling births. And yes, they are celebrities. And somehow, unfortunately, there are few, but more and more if you analyze, who choose to give birth naturally and not by scheduled C-section, as we are taught to believe is the easiest way. It is the easiest way, a scheduled C-section, for the doctor, because it takes exactly twenty minutes, whereas a natural birth relies only on the woman’s strength and emotions, and you don’t know how long it will last, when it will start, or when it will end. The couple must be prepared, otherwise they enter a minefield where no one can help to make the birth go faster, end sooner, or start earlier, and all these forced interventions are unnatural and lead to traumatic births, because any forcing of the body’s physiology leads to pain, to unnecessary intensity. So these celebrity women—Cindy Crawford, Kate the Princess, Demi Moore—all these women gave birth at home or naturally and somehow showed the world that it can be done naturally, it can be done simply, and that it is normal to want to give birth naturally. And I can tell you with my hand on my heart that a woman who prepares for a birth outside the system is much better informed than any other woman who goes and expects the medical system to bring her child into the world. Usually, these choices, even if made out of ignorance, are deeply regretted afterwards, because, you see, that biological program we have as mammals and as women who bring children into the world. We have a hormonal and physiological, biological system, and if this mission of giving birth is not fulfilled, we enter into imbalances that manifest, yes, as depressions or, I don’t know, other manifestations that the woman cannot understand and does not realize where they come from—they come from, let’s say, the unfulfillment of our biological program. The biological program of a woman is to give birth to children, to give birth without problems, as long as there are no dramatic, traumatic imprints from her own birth, which will influence the birth of her child. We will discuss this in more detail during our courses. Good. These three women chose to give birth naturally, as did these other three women. You all know Pamela Anderson. She played in Baywatch. She was somehow admired as one of the first women to have breast implants. Anyway, for me, she was a woman who, I don’t know, didn’t necessarily inspire me, but when I read that she gave birth at home and responsibly and breastfed—I think she has three children—I said, okay. See, you can be wrong about an actress you might judge just from what you hear or see on TV. Two other actresses who played in Beverly Hills and other American series. Anyway, these are the examples I found to show you that natural birth is not a whim and has not become a fad, but is simply what we should ask of our biological program. But because society has taught us that it is not fashionable, even I, many years ago, before my first child was born, was sure I would have a C-section and that it would be a scheduled C-section, at a date that would suit me, numerologically, and with a lot of ignorance, because at that time I had no idea what I was triggering with such choices. Yes, I learned. And what taught me the most were even the losses of those three children I lost during early pregnancy, yes, but they were losses that led to depressions and lessons. That’s when I actually started to look into infertility and the fact that children come when they are meant to come, when the parents are ready. And here we are not talking only about physical preparation, because it is not all about being physically fit, but it is all, or mostly, about being emotionally fit, because that is what we pass on the most. So, women who have given birth naturally exist and will continue to exist. And even if we look, let’s say, in our country or in other countries, we will always find beautiful examples of fulfilling births, exemplary births, doctors who support natural birth. Even if, elsewhere, let’s say eighty percent of hospitals go for the idea of C-sections on a conveyor belt. So, wherever you are, there is always at least one hospital. In more modern countries, you will find water births everywhere, for example, in Australia, seventy percent of public maternity hospitals offer water birth, so water birth is not a big boogeyman as it is in Romania, for example. But here too, it is possible, and there are examples who have followed my idea of gentle birth and have managed to maintain this gentle birth program for years, even decades. And yes, I congratulate them for succeeding and realizing that there is a niche for this, and yes, you can make good money from birth tourism, because the idea of wanting to give birth naturally has somehow turned into a small business for some clinics, who know this and have realized that, besides fame and the fact that they are doing good for humanity and for these children and mothers who manage to give birth the way they want, they have realized that it is possible to do something good for humanity. End of parenthesis. And now I want you to take something, because it will be important to write down the five secrets to having a beautiful and fulfilling birth. And the first secret of all, and perhaps the most important, because without this secret, the others have no value, is relaxation. Because if we look at how we spend our time nowadays, how fast we run, how quickly we solve things, we no longer know how to relax. Relaxation only comes on vacation. Relaxation maybe comes once every so many weekends. Otherwise, we have checklists, things to do. And a first warning sign is when you prepare that to-do list, yes, in which you don’t appear on any line. So you only do things for others, but nothing for yourself. Take a look at your list, see if you are on it, if you pay attention to your body, if you pay attention to your needs, if you are at least at one point on that list and among the priorities. Because we are so poorly taught from school to execute things, but without thinking that these things are not actually for us, but for parents, for someone, for the relationship, for the house, for all sorts of things, for the job, yes, but not for us. That is why the first thing we need to relearn is to relax. Why? Relaxation shows that you honor yourself. Besides honoring yourself, it means you give yourself time. That means you respect yourself. That means your self-confidence and self-esteem will grow. Because if you don’t esteem and honor yourself, know that others won’t either. It’s a very simple rule. So all those who complain that, I don’t know, someone doesn’t respect you, in fact that person is just showing you a mirror, that you don’t show that you respect yourself, and then others just react accordingly. So let’s love ourselves more, let’s give ourselves more time, let’s relax more. Let’s give ourselves half an hour a day, in which we simply give ourselves time. Not time spent on the phone. Not time spent on Facebook or Instagram. Time for you. What does time for you mean? Look, to sit with a cup of tea in front of you, because now we no longer drink coffee, yes, because we are pregnant, and to think about what you like, to think about yourself, about what you would like to do, about your future plans, about what you would like to learn or assimilate, or maybe you want to get to know yourself better. All this time is the most valuable time you can give yourself, because the rest is running around, and this self-honoring will also bring you mental flexibility, because you will be kinder to yourself. You will no longer be so harsh, you will no longer demand so much from yourself. You will be much more tolerant and kinder. And this is very important, because we were born to be—or rather, we were taught to be—our own harshest critics. And I know how that is, because I have been in this position all my life, and these thoughts always seem to give me no peace. And yes, here’s another very interesting word in Romanian. Actually, an expression: when something gives you no peace, well, when that something gives you no peace, give it peace. Let it go, because it is not what you need. When we honor ourselves and give ourselves that half hour of time, from that moment we actually learn to observe ourselves, to see ourselves, to listen to our bodies, to connect more with ourselves. How does this help in pregnancy? Very simply. The relaxation we have forgotten to practice brings us back to the present, brings us back into our bodies, and no longer makes us run into the future or project or live in the past. Presence and relaxation go hand in hand to help you during birth and labor, and especially afterwards, to be more connected with yourself, your needs, your body, and especially your baby. Why do we need relaxation during pregnancy? Because the baby growing inside you will copy exactly the personality you are now manifesting and showing. Because your baby feels you. Your baby feels your emotions, feels your state, feels your reactions, feels when something upsets you, when something annoys you. He actually learns reactions already from your womb. So, as you are during pregnancy, so will your child be, so will his character be, so will his personality be, because you are actually showing him how to be. Why? The child does copy-paste, meaning he copies everything he sees in you. He won’t learn poems and things you want to teach him just because you read some books. Before that, the child, when he is born, is already born with a set of characteristics, abilities, ways of acting, ways of reacting that he learns automatically from the womb. So what if you relaxed? Would you like to have a child as active as you are now? Maybe not. Maybe yes. Think carefully, because all this agitation you are experiencing now and all, let’s say, insecurity or worry is transmitted to your child. Your child, when he chose you, was happy that you would be his mother. He chose you from seven billion souls. Yes? So he was sure he wanted you. But that doesn’t mean he wants all your agitation; he hopes you will take a break and connect with yourself and your baby. So, a book I recommend to you during pregnancy for those thirty minutes of relaxation—maybe we’ll even try an hour—is “The Nine Steps,” a book in which you can read how and what your baby feels in the womb while you live your life at the intensity you know. So, how will it help you? How will these moments of relaxation, which should be as frequent as possible, help you? Well, they will help you a lot during birth, because during birth it doesn’t matter how fast you are, how many degrees you have, what courses you have completed, what breathing techniques or pain management techniques you have heard of. You won’t hear them from me, but what matters is how you connect with your child and how you relax. And yes, it is an art to relax in moments of crisis, when it seems that nothing works anymore and everything is collapsing around you. That is exactly what you need to relearn, because if you never do it during pregnancy, you won’t know how to do it then, during birth. So, I suggest, my dear, that you make time for thirty minutes a day, during which you start a creative activity, because creativity brings you back to yourself, brings you into your senses, brings you into the state of creating something. Because, besides the fact that a life is being created inside you, you should continue to create outside yourself, not just inside. And not just create a blockage there. So any creative activity, something beautiful that can come out of your hands, something beautiful that can come out of your feelings, whether it is music, whether it is a manual activity. Yes? Let’s say you start coloring or crocheting. Or, I don’t know, you prepare something beautiful for the baby. There are so many ways you could approach this that I won’t give you too many examples so as not to limit your imagination. Please do all those things you considered yourself too mature to do. Know that now it is fashionable to color even coloring books. To crochet or do tapestries. Yes? Or to sew something, or to paint, or to start all sorts of things you never had time to do. This is the perfect moment, and once you incorporate these creative activities, you will also manage to connect with yourself. And I suggest that in those moments of relaxation you... create something from yourself and get used to relaxing every day. Good, that would be the first secret, and by applying this secret for eight or nine months or however much time you have left in your pregnancy, it will be very easy for you to relax even in those intense moments when labor intensifies and birth is approaching. Know that I have never claimed that birth is easy or that it is all smiles. But it is possible. It is possible when you are prepared and when you do something about it and don’t leave everything to chance. So, believe me, this investment of thirty minutes every day will be worth every effort, every minute. Let’s see what the second secret is to having a beautiful and fulfilling birth. This secret refers to something very concrete during birth and refers to intimacy. It refers to the intimacy during birth, to that place you will occupy, which must be quiet, dark, and where you can manifest yourself unobserved. Because we change our behavior when someone is watching us. And this is not only true for humans, but is observed everywhere. Something that is under observation changes its behavior. When, for example, someone wants to photograph you and you know it, your expression changes, you are no longer natural, everything becomes strange. It’s like someone surprises you and wants to film how you behave, for example, in the elevator when you go home alone or how you behave in an elevator when there are other people with you. That’s the difference. That’s exactly what mammals do, who hide during birth. Among the mammals that hide—and by the way, we humans are also mammals because we give birth to our young—these mammals hide precisely so as not to be disturbed during birth by other animals. For example, the cat. Surely you have heard that the cat leaves home or, if it doesn’t leave, hides, makes a nest, or hides somewhere you can barely reach, in a closet or under a bed, where it quietly gives birth to its kittens. After that, after giving birth, it may bring them out into the open. And yes, you will see them around the house. But until then, the cat gives birth in secret, so as not to be disturbed. Now, I’m not saying a woman is a solitary being. Humans are not solitary beings. But all a woman needs during birth is support. She doesn’t need criticism, she doesn’t need people filming or observing her, or judging her, but simply needs support. And for that, she needs to be in a place, even in a hospital. Because you will ask me: “Well, where do you have privacy in a hospital?” Well, yes, you can ask for it. That’s why I recommend you also take the Birth Plan course, where I will explain in detail what it means to ask for certain things you are entitled to. So you have the right to ask for privacy—even in a hospital, whether it’s public or private, it’s almost the same thing. The idea is that no one has the right to parade in front of you or violate your right to privacy. As long as, of course, lives don’t need to be saved, and then no one will ask you, “Can we save your life?” They will just come and save your life. The idea is... The idea is, in fact, that women are not used to having rights, especially during birth. And because for many decades women have been treated very inhumanely during birth, they still don’t know they have rights, innate rights, natural human rights, in which they can ask not to have the whole hospital there, from the nurse to, I don’t know, people who come to empty the trash can. Or hundreds of doctors, tens of doctors who come in and each does a vaginal exam. Yes? So what are we talking about? Abuse after abuse. That’s why, even today, the “Stop Obstetric Violence!” program continues. Unfortunately, obstetric violence is very widespread, not only in our country but everywhere in the world, and women are starting to demand their rights, knowing about these inhumane practices. So it’s not just a local problem, but an international one, where women must demand their rights to privacy, quiet, darkness, and being unobserved during birth, because otherwise they cannot give birth. Know that ninety percent of the blockages that occur during birth are emotional blockages, related to intimacy, to not being left alone, to not having enough quiet for her to labor there, to there being too many lights, too many observers of the process, and then labor is disrupted. Because when you, as a mammal, no longer feel safe, you will react exactly like a mammal, just like I told you about the cat that retreats. And if, for example, in that secret place where she went to give birth, another tomcat, another mammal, or a danger appears, the cat automatically stops giving birth, takes her newborn kitten, if there is one, and looks for another hiding place where, if she feels safe, she will restart labor. How amazing! And we function the same way. Ninety percent of hospital labors are blocked due to lack of privacy, due to the absence of this very important factor in which you, as a woman, feel respected, seen, and yet left alone. To feel safe, even if you are not with twelve people in the same room, because they can wait outside and at the first sign they will all be there to help you. But birth is not about how much help you can get, but how much you can handle, because practically no one can help you give birth faster or easier except through, let’s say, practices that bring pain, violence, forcing, labor acceleration, or C-section. And well, then we are only talking about saving lives. So make sure that in the place where you will give birth you have privacy, quiet, and you can adjust the light, the intensity of the light, and you can spend your labor, which can last hours, sometimes tens of hours. And that doesn’t mean it’s torture, but it can simply be such a beautiful intimacy as a couple that the hours will pass very quickly, because during labor time shrinks anyway. The idea is to secure that place, and you see, all these requirements don’t even cost anything, because they don’t cost. They cost nothing but understanding and humanity. That is, it doesn’t cost money to get privacy, to have this wish respected, to have quiet, to not feel observed. That doesn’t cost money. Just as respect doesn’t cost money, or that place where everyone is there for you, to keep you safe. But it matters a lot that you set the boundaries. I’ll give you an example. Many women give birth in public hospitals, at least in Romania, where unfortunately, this natural wish and requirement for privacy is not respected. Because we don’t even want to open our mouths at the dentist, right? Then, at a gynecologist or during birth, when you don’t just open your mouth, right? There you open up completely. And of course, you don’t want to do that in front of dozens of strangers, because, regardless if they are women or men, you won’t be comfortable. And when you close yourself off emotionally and feel ashamed, physiologically speaking, birth will not progress because you have closed yourself off. Birth is about opening the cervix, opening the uterus, letting the baby out. When you close yourself off, you close up. You keep the baby inside because you continue to protect him, because you don’t feel safe in that place, even if it’s a level three, five, ten hospital, it doesn’t matter. And in most public hospitals, at least in Romania, there is that incident with the residents who will come to see how a woman gives birth. And maybe you’ll be the “lucky” one, in quotes, in quotes. Why do I say lucky? It’s not lucky at all. It’s abuse to stand and gape at a woman who is giving birth to her child through the most intimate place possible and to just be there, like someone dropped from the sky, and not empathize. Although, believe me, I have met dozens of residents who, after such an experience, decided never to practice obstetrics, meaning never to be involved in assisting a birth, because they saw how women are treated. And I have many women, by the way, doctors, who assisted during their residency at such scenes and experiences and who were marked for life and chose C-sections because the experience they saw with that woman who was somehow shown off as “this is how you give birth” stuck in their minds and on their retinas, as they say. Torture, because no woman goes on stage to make love with someone, unless that’s her job. But let’s not go into such details. No woman goes to give birth on a stage with passersby, with residents who, bless their hearts, need to learn too, but let them learn with whoever they want, with their partner, but not with you. I don’t think it’s normal for a woman who goes to give birth to be examined by twelve residents who need to learn about dilation. How would you, as a man, who is now next to your woman and want to accompany her during birth, feel knowing that ten strangers, young men and women, residents, have put their fingers in your partner’s vagina while she was giving birth? And she wanted to sink into the ground. From shame and humiliation. And from everything that happens in those moments. It’s incredible, and I want to tell you that these things still happen today. And there is zero empathy for the woman giving birth and zero empathy for the woman who asks not to have that happen to her. So, even in public hospitals, in Bucharest for example, in the capital, we have illustrious doctors who say, “But what can we do? They need to learn, but let them learn with whoever allows them.” But you don’t learn on a woman who says no. Up to here, I am not your test doll. Yes, that’s about privacy. And that’s about the idea of checking dilation during birth by the on-call doctor, the doctor who changed shifts, the resident doctor, the duty doctor, my doctor, his doctor, the doctor’s doctor… What? What is this? This is rape! This is obstetric violence. I am teaching you for your own good. I want you to be spared from such things, because it is not natural for you to go through that. I am just telling you what usually happens. That’s why I ask you to also take the course on the birth plan and how to fill it out and what to ask for and how to ask, because there you will actually learn what your rights are and what the standard procedures are in any maternity hospital in this world. So, the first secret is to relearn how to relax, and the second secret is to ask for a place where your privacy and unobserved state are respected. That is, a woman gives birth fastest when she is not observed. That doesn’t mean we go into the woods to give birth. Yes, it means my wish for privacy is respected in the moments before birth, and at the moment of delivery, of course, we want a medical team to be there, but this medical team can consist of a midwife and a doctor and maybe a neonatologist, but that doesn’t mean they have to be present for your entire labor—6 hours, 3 hours, 12 hours, 30 hours—because you can’t ask for that. And it’s not necessary. So, you see, if we don’t know what to ask for, we get the standard, yes? Good, that would be the second secret to having a beautiful and fulfilling birth. And now. We will talk about instincts. About the third secret to having a beautiful and fulfilling birth. And this secret is about listening to your instincts, connecting to your body, and connecting to your baby. Because by connecting to your body and your baby, birth will be much easier, because the collaboration that happens between your body and your baby is perfect at the moment of connection. If the woman is disconnected from her body and is only in her mind, making a drama out of labor pains and not connecting to the baby, who also feels the same emotions as the mother because she transmits them, at that moment two worlds break apart and collaboration ceases. That is why the instincts of birth are what you must listen to, not your mind. That is why the neocortex or rational mind, or reasoning, or judgment, have no place during birth. Why? Because you don’t need your mind. That’s why I am teaching you now the most important thing for your labor. Disconnect from your mind and go with your instinct, which never deceives you, your mother’s instinct, and connect to your body and your baby. That’s why, please, don’t calculate the minutes, don’t count contractions, don’t control the process, don’t think about it, don’t rationalize it. Don’t make math out of birth. Math has no place in birth. It’s useless. It’s an exact science. Birth has nothing to do with any exact science. Birth is about emotions, experience, feeling, connection, hormones. These things have no math. That’s why all the apps you downloaded on your phone to count contractions, measure contractions, measure the pause between contractions, please delete them right now, because they will get in your way and fix your mind in rational, in calculations, and you will forget to connect to yourself and your body and your baby. And you can’t do that, you can’t be connected to your instincts while thinking about something. You need to get the thoughts out, get the brain out of the equation. It’s like I’m asking you to cut from here, the head stays somewhere, you relax it, and the body stays connected. That’s why, surely you’ve heard that women from the countryside, with less knowledge than others, let’s say, give birth more easily. Why? They are not so rational, not so anchored in the brain, in thinking, in judgment, in measuring. They simply let the process happen through them, being connected to their bodies and their babies. That’s why women in tribes, women from all sorts of, let’s say, backward countries, give birth very easily. Why? Because they are connected to themselves, not to their minds. I can tell you from experience that my first birth was a counted, calculated, rationalized, judged, noted on paper, timed birth, and it lasted 63 hours, after which I had to surrender, because I wouldn’t have given birth otherwise. The more I tried to control the process, the longer it took, because you can only control a physiological process by disrupting it. Does it make sense? If you rationalize a physiological process too much, you disrupt it. If you think too much about those contractions and start counting them, you activate your brain and interrupt your instincts. That’s what I did the first time. Please, learn from this, because I wish 63 hours of labor and that feeling of “I’m done, I can’t anymore” on no one. And the second birth was exactly the opposite, because at least I set out to connect with my body, to connect with myself. That’s all I set out to do. I didn’t look at the clock, I didn’t count anything. I didn’t do anything that could activate my brain. And that was the key. I didn’t know everything I know now. I am giving you now dozens of levers, dozens of models that work. And I ask you just this: forget all the courses you will take and connect with yourself. That’s all. And with your baby. That’s all. You don’t need anything else. OK. Does someone want to measure contractions? Let them. That can be done by your husband, partner, doula, someone else who is outside the process of connection, you and your baby. Do you want to count your contractions? Do you want to time them? No problem. Let someone else do it, but not you. Michelle Odan said so beautifully: “Never wake a woman in labor.” It was as if she were sleeping. But she is not sleeping. That woman is actually living her birth. She is not sleeping. She is giving birth. That’s how you give birth. Women who take rationality out of the calculation of birth enter a state of amnesia, enter a trance. Amnesia means they no longer have a sense of time. If you ask a woman who has just given birth how many hours her labor lasted, she will tell you two. And if you ask someone what time she arrived, they will say nine hours ago. And labor lasted nine hours... Time compresses, sensations are different. The woman enters a trance without wanting to. Without needing someone to put her in a trance, to trick her, to tell her something specific. She simply enters that trance. There is no problem. As long as, yes, the process is not disrupted. So, let’s repeat. The first secret is that birth is instinctive—no, birth needs relaxation, so you need to relax. The second secret is that birth needs an intimate setting. The third secret is that you must connect to your instincts, not your head, not your brain. Now let’s see what the fourth secret is. And maybe this is the most challenging of all, because we women have come to be very, let’s say, not only rational, but very controlling. We occupy all sorts of positions, we are equal to men, we fight for positions, we prove that we are very good. Yes, no one disputes that. Only that during birth it doesn’t matter. During birth it doesn’t matter how many degrees you have, what job you had, or how many directorships you have completed. No. It doesn’t matter how many houses, cars, or degrees you have. What matters is how much you can surrender to the birth process. Hmm, how does that sound? How do I surrender?

Well, I no longer know how to let go, because when I lose control, I go crazy. But yes, I wish for you to lose control during childbirth, because that is the key—to lose control, not to rationalize, not to control the process. Because birth unfolds, it unfolds perfectly as long as we do not try to control it. So what do we need to relearn or learn in life? To surrender. Surely, you have had many moments in your life when you realized that the more resistance you put up, the harder life becomes. Correct? At least I have somehow learned this lesson and I am still learning it. I realized that the more I surrender, the easier things become, they flow in a more natural direction, and they happen on their own. That does not mean, “Oh, I don’t care anymore. Life is what it is. I give up.” It’s not about that kind of intelligent or clever surrender, but about letting go, because opposition consumes a lot of energy, and the more you resist birth, the more intense, harder, and more painful it becomes. The better you surrender, the more fluent and faster it becomes. So what do you need to do? Lose control. That’s the key. Lose control. Surrender. Let yourself go completely and totally in front of the physiological process. Because your body knows what to do, and your child knows what to do. The key is with you. If you manage to surrender, it is wonderful. And OK. How do we train this feeling of surrender? Very simply. Surrender daily to the flow of life. Observe what happens around you. Notice if you can truly control life or if you can only surrender to it. Because I believe it is an illusion to think that we control life. It’s not really like that. Very often, the hardest lessons come from not wanting to surrender. So yes, this is also a very challenging exercise, but it is worth it, because it will make your birth much easier. And I am telling you it is possible. I, who am a person who usually controls everything around me, managed, at the birth of my second child, to let go, and it was a healing surrender, because I realized that during all that time when I controlled nothing, I did not feel lost, but carried. Carried by birth, carried by my child, by my instincts, carried by invisible hands that gave me the certainty that everything was fine. And yes, it was extraordinarily good. After four and a half hours of labor, during which, as I told you, the intensity was somewhere around two or three on a scale from zero to ten, where the first birth was twelve—it was terrible. I realized I would have liked to savor that feeling of victory and revenge I experienced after holding my daughter in my arms for a little longer. So yes, it is worth it. Every effort to learn to surrender to life and to your femininity is worth it, because it knows what to do. And yes, maybe we still have work to do on femininity, because this exaggerated masculinity that we, as women, have adopted to survive in this world does not help us in these cases, not at all. So let’s become women again, because men do not give birth. Men cannot give birth to a child; it is not their job, they do not have the necessary hormones. Spare me those LGBT stories and whatever nonsense, because it is not true. The woman has the creative power and the woman is the one who gives birth. The rest are stories, marketing, and other interests. So let’s leave birth to women, because their bodies know how to do this, and let’s leave men the role of protector and supporter of women, because that is their role. Yes, and let’s see what the fifth secret is for a beautiful and fulfilling birth. And this secret is, let’s say, perhaps an unexpected one, because by now you are used to relaxation, intimacy, connecting to instincts and to the baby, surrender. Let’s see what the fifth secret is. Well, the fifth secret is safety. If a woman does not feel safe, if she does not trust that birth is normal, natural, and healthy, she will never be able to give birth naturally, because the birth will stall and end up in a C-section or a forced delivery. Yes? Forced either naturally or by C-section, depending on how long they wait. So safety is the most pragmatic factor in childbirth. It’s like that cat that would retreat and find a place where she felt safe. If someone appeared and disturbed that sense of safety, the cat would instinctively stop giving birth and freeze. Exactly the same happens in ninety percent of cases where women who desperately wanted a natural birth ended up with blockages, emergency C-sections, complications, because at some point something happened and they no longer felt safe. And when something in your subconscious does not feel safe, everything is blocked. Even if you are in the most, let’s say, sophisticated, maximum-security hospital, that is not where safety is. Safety is somewhere in your mind, in your senses. And if that safety is not real for your senses and your mind, it could be a fortress—it doesn’t matter. Your birth will stall, because you cannot carry this process further. If your body and psyche do not feel that everything is safe, is okay, is within parameters, is secure. And now I will give you an example, because many women, especially at the very beginning or without much information, think about home birth. Home birth is not a joke. Home birth is not what I recommend, because home birth must take place in a safe environment. And here comes the most appropriate or perhaps the most unexpected question: Would you feel safe giving birth at home? And answer. And answer me with the first words that come to mind. No or yes? You cannot fool your mind. You have already given yourself the answer. Your partner has probably also given himself the answer. Many women who made the decision to give birth at home because it seemed much better than at the hospital—yes, I do not contest, probably at the hospital so many crazy things happen, especially in some hospitals where you really do not want such things to happen. But birth never ended at home as the woman wanted. Why? Because safety did not meet the criteria. And then she had to go to the hospital, where, ironically, labor would resume. Why? Because she arrived in the place where she and her subconscious knew that now she was safe and could give birth safely. So you cannot fool your mind. It does not work, it does not function. Someone who does not feel one hundred percent safe at home will never be able to give birth at home. A home birth will never be okay if unattended. A home birth must be planned, you must have at least a midwife, at least a doula, at least a doctor waiting for you at the hospital. You must have at least an ambulance at the gate for any eventuality. You need enormous psychological and emotional preparation to take on something like this, because you cannot play around. And those who say that Ditta Depner, I don’t know, preaches home birth, are wrong. They put words in my mouth that I never said. I am not for unattended home birth. Home birth, in safety, in a civilized country, of course, yes. With two midwives, a doula, an ambulance, with the possibility that, as they say, we can deliver a patient in ten minutes to a hospital, just as we deliver pizza in ten minutes to your home. It is the same principle, only in Romania this is somewhat illegal, because midwives currently do not have the right to practice outside hospitals, and doctors do not want midwives to have this freedom, because, well, what would happen to their profession... So yes, I am telling you all these things so you understand that we are not playing with what is trendy, to give birth at home or because it is cute, because that is not the case, and regardless of what you consciously believe, your subconscious will sabotage you until, indeed, these five secrets are applicable. And now, since you know these five secrets: relaxation, intimacy, connecting to instincts, surrender, and safety—if one of these five is not fulfilled, labor will stall. If you are not relaxed, your uterus will not be able to handle contractions and they will seem very painful. I will tell you about this in the course on contractions and the uterus. If you do not have intimacy in the hospital or clinic where you will give birth, you will freeze and labor will stall. The others will be useless. If you are not connected to your instinct, but are in your mind, counting contractions, you have activated your rational side, the physiological process is blocked. If you do not know how to surrender, you are in your mind, you are in control. You cannot give birth with control. I tried for three days and three nights. It did not work. Yes. And yes, if you are not in a place where you feel one hundred percent safe, you will not be able to give birth naturally. Or yes, you will not be able to give birth until you reach an environment where your mind and subconscious agree and feel equally safe. Yes, and now I want to tell you two or three more things about gentle birth, because this concept is somehow making a comeback. Because today, birth is presented to many mothers as an eminently medical process. A pregnant woman goes to her first checkup, and from the first checkup she will receive diagnoses that, somehow, her body is predestined not to function properly. As if everyone expects there to be a manufacturing defect in your body. It is incredible how a pregnant woman is treated from the first checkup. You are treated as if you are sick. It is incredible. Like machines that need seven thousand services because suddenly you are carrying a child and suddenly you have to do a thousand tests and suddenly nothing works. I do not know how you functioned until now without so many tests and investigations. I am not saying not to do them. But ask yourself, is it right that a pregnant woman, for whom pregnancy should be the greatest joy, yes? You are carrying another heart in your womb. She is treated, that woman is treated as if she is sick. And pregnancy is treated as a disease. So many tests you have never done in your life. Maybe. Yes, if you have not had other problems. That is why I say that the first checkup can be a total fiasco or can end in tears, because the woman is effectively convinced that she has a manufacturing defect and does not function as she should. And then I wonder, how can I give birth easily? What if I did something like this, listened to my body, trusted it? Because it knows how to give birth to my baby. What if I connected with myself? What if I got to know myself better? What if I observed myself? Watched my needs? Respected my body? Respected my desires? Respected my sleep? When I feel like sleeping, I want to sleep and I sleep. Even if I sleep with my head on the table for ten minutes. That is the moment when I need sleep. When I am hungry, I eat. Women still follow their instincts, but again there is a fuss. Yes, now you want pickles or strawberries. Sorry if I am making you crave. Yes? No, we always have cravings, but we do not listen to them. Finally, during pregnancy, we have a reason to listen to our cravings, to want something and to make sure we eat that thing. How can I give birth easily? Oh, I would ask you very, very, very much to get rid of all these negative influences. Turn off the TV, skip the news, please avoid horror movies, and please throw away the magazines and especially the internet. Turn it off because you will find ten thousand tons of bad advice and you will also have a group of well-intentioned friends who will tell you, as if in a contest, “Wait till you hear how it was for me!” And they will pour out everything that was not okay about their birth. And you, dear one, who are barely keeping your head above water, will be dragged down into their ocean of emotions spilled during the telling of their own birth traumas. So yes, stop your friends, even if they are well-intentioned, but they do not help you. You do not have to be someone’s trash can for them to dump their bitterness on you, especially now when you are in such a vulnerable period. You do not need negative influences, you do not need news. Anyway, what needs to happen will happen. Anyway, you will not find out anything crazy on TV, it is all made to scare, to control through fear, to manipulate you. So, what’s the point? You do not need it. Enjoy yourself! Enjoy your belly, take pictures, go for walks, do something else. Leave social media, leave these things, watch my YouTube channel, look for educational videos about birth. Influence yourself with beautiful things, not terrifying ones. Practice personal development. Get to know your subconscious, explore it, explore those memories you have lost. Explore your own birth, explore how you lived, how your childhood years were. How you came into the world, if you were a wanted child. Do the same with your partner. Yes? So you have so much to do that you really do not have time for nonsense. And yes, train your mind to work for you and not against you. And be creative. Here is another thing you can do: belly painting. Isn’t it nice to meet with other pregnant women and paint beautiful designs on your bellies? Isn’t that much nicer than doing all sorts of parties and gender reveals and other nonsense? Do creative things, things that bring you joy. Prepare yourself mentally and emotionally for birth, because it is the most important thing you can do. You can do yoga, you can do pilates, do sports—not extreme sports, but do belly dance. Belly dance beautifully balances and energizes the energies in that area where something more stagnant is happening now, creativity. Go swimming. Yes. Enjoy the water, you have no contraindications. Get rid of—and I will have a special course on all those pregnancy myths. That you are not allowed this, you are not allowed that, it is not true. You are allowed whatever gives you pleasure within normal limits. Yes, of course, but I will explain all these things in the courses you will take. And what else can you do to give birth easily? Be gentle and forgiving with your body. Cultivate your relationship with your partner now, especially now, because later you will not have time. You will not have time to talk, to spend time together. Everything after that will be “let’s see as we go.” And yes, you will need a solid relationship, where the two of you are very grounded and well settled, because otherwise any draft, any wind, any baby’s cry will knock you down. Because an intense period with the baby is coming. What I also recommend is to explore your relationship with your mother. And yes, it matters a lot what kind of relationship you had with your own mother. Even if you are a man or a woman, the relationship with your mother will manifest in your relationship with your child. So reconnect with your mother, if possible, if the relationship is not so degraded that you cannot, and resolve the tense issues, because yes, I have an unpleasant surprise for you. All the tensions during labor turn into complications. All complications during labor and birth are actually unresolved tensions from childhood, from relationships with parents, from relationships with those close to you. Because yes, everything is reflected there. So it is incredible how you cannot escape if you do not resolve them, and that threshold is birth. And it is a very important exam to pass. And you will not pass it if you do not do something. How can I give birth easily? Adopt a healthy lifestyle. Maintain your physical and emotional health. And by the way, it is not just about what you eat, but also about how you digest your emotions, what conflicts you nurture. How you think about expressing yourself. How much you go outside. How much you enjoy nature. How much you ground yourself. These are things that are actually simple, but so, let’s say, increasingly rarely done by women, so I really recommend you connect deeply with Mother Earth, because you too will become mothers like Mother Earth and all the fruits she offers us. So yes. We will prepare together very deeply and you will see in the next videos how important emotional preparation is, not just physical preparation for birth. Thank you for staying until the end. See you in the next video.