Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I congratulate you for purchasing this course on breathing techniques that I have developed over these years of experience. Thirteen years, to be exact. These breathing techniques will help you have the birth you desire and that any woman would wish for: beautiful and fulfilling, as short as possible, of course, and as easy and… let’s say, fulfilling, because this is what completes a woman, a mother. I want to tell you that this course on breathing techniques will help you get through not only the labor stage, which for some women can be very, let’s say, intense, and for others can be very easy. And this is just, let’s say, a consequence of whether those women are prepared or not for birth, because they know what to expect and know how to manage those contractions, which last only a few seconds. But, if in those seconds you do exactly what you shouldn’t, that labor can last even two or three days, which I wish on no one, because I have been there.

So, the breathing technique for labor, meaning during labor when you will have shorter contractions, when your cervix will dilate. I recommend that you also go through the course about the cervix and about what contractions do and how they manifest, because your mind needs to know what is happening with your body, and the breathing technique for expulsion is somehow the most important technique you will learn. Why? Because I have noticed over these years that women decompensate very easily, especially during the most intense period of labor, that is, the expulsion period. That is why these two breathing techniques will make your birth easier and faster and, let’s say, experienced with positive emotions and not negative ones, as you may be used to seeing in movies or, I don’t know, stories from friends.

Before we start with these two courses on the two types of breathing I have developed, I invite you to also watch the video in which I will explain what you will gain after completing this breathing course for birth. Let’s get to work! I am glad you are here. Take something to write with because it is very important to see and reread your notes afterward. Of course, you will be able to rewatch the course for nine months, as many times as you wish, because you have unlimited access to it for yourself and your partner. Thank you.