Hello, my dear! I am Ditta Depner. Today I want to introduce you to the breathing technique for expulsion. This will be a slightly longer lesson because it is very important for you to understand what happens physiologically in your body when you need to give birth to your baby and you enter, let’s say, the final stage of your labor. So, this is a breathing technique invented specifically for this period of the baby's expulsion. I will show you some trendy images that you have surely seen in all the movies, on TV, which present the expulsion of the baby in a horrifying and very shocking way. That is why most women even choose not to give birth naturally, being scared by these movies that actually need to get ratings. I will explain a bit why the technique you will hear about in most hospitals, from most midwives, in most maternity wards, is the Valsalva technique, which is very dangerous. I am not the only one saying this; studies do not recommend this technique, and unfortunately, in Romania at least, midwives and doctors still recommend this outdated and dangerous technique. I will explain, and you will see and realize for yourself what kind of serious injuries this technique can cause during birth. We will talk about the risk of retinal detachment, cardiac arrest, intraocular pressure, and blocking the baby's transition—all related to this Valsalva breathing technique, which is recommended by midwives and doctors in most maternity wards worldwide. But, of course, there is also a proper technique. And I will talk to you about that in this course, because I will show you that the anatomy of the female body can support certain associations between functions and organs. There are correspondences in the body between the upper and lower parts, as there are in everything, and we will even talk about embryogenesis. We will talk about fascia, sphincters, Chinese medicine, the link between emotions and instant somatization, about how to relax your cervix, vagina, vulva, labia, and perineum. And I will present this technique for each part that needs to be relaxed. I will also share another secret, because it is very important to know where, in a woman's body, all stresses and frustrations accumulate. You will also do a muscle test to demonstrate the practice, and I will describe the breathing technique with correct vocalization, because it is a vocalization technique. That is why it will involve sounds, so you can understand better, and I will show you the difference between a birth with suffering and one with correct breathing. After this course, you will know how and when to push during effective contractions and how to breathe correctly. And you will also know when and how to practice this breathing and vocalization technique. Let's begin! So, we are discussing breathing during expulsion, because expulsion is one of the most intense moments of birth, the one every woman tries to avoid and is terribly afraid of. You should know that ninety percent of women choose a C-section precisely because of this generalized fear, propagated in movies and all sorts of videos about childbirth, where the woman screams, yells, and curses. No, birth does not have to be like that, and I will demonstrate that what I am saying is logical and physiological. Good. Let's start with technique number two, because technique number one is the breathing technique for dilation, and now the second technique is the breathing technique for expulsion contractions. Expulsion means when the baby enters the vaginal canal and has only a few centimeters left to be born. I created this technique especially and called it expulsion vocalization, because, yes, it involves sounds, which is very important for you to understand. And when I refer to sounds, they will not be screams and cries of pain, but other types of sounds. But we will talk about them shortly. It is a breathing technique for efficient expulsion, so you can give birth to your child as quickly and easily as possible. The woman needs this breathing technique so she does not remain too long in this, let's say... part of labor, because this part of labor is the most intense for most women. And now let me show you how the baby's expulsion is presented, which has become every woman's nightmare. It is the number one reason why most women choose a C-section instead of natural birth. Because, when a woman gives birth, we are shown on TV and in the media as you see in this picture, with a contorted face, screaming and yelling in pain, frozen, and pushing or straining, right? So, this is the horrifying image we know from TV and the media. Here you have another image of torment, pain, and suffering up to agony, which you certainly would not wish on anyone during birth. And this torment has a name. It is called the Valsalva technique. And all recent official medical publications do not recommend this expulsion technique. This expulsion technique is straining. It is the moment when the woman holds her breath and pushes. That means to strain. When a woman strains, she does this. (sound of straining) I showed you so you can realize (asthma sound) what this means. It is totally wrong. And recent medical studies and publications do not recommend this expulsion technique because, ironically, it is harmful and dangerous. Officially declared. So, it is not just me saying this because I invented another technique, but official medical studies and publications say this, because it has been proven that using this Valsalva technique, women with hypertension or cardiac arrhythmias risk suffering a stroke or even cardiac arrest. So, what you see in the image—that is why it is crossed out in red—is the Valsalva technique, which is harmful and dangerous. I want to tell you all these things because I care about you, your children, your health, and everything that is natural and normal. So, Valsalva has been outdated for many years and is no longer used. In Romania, when the midwife tells you how to push and the doctor tells you what to push, how to push, and when to push, they will recommend this technique because that is what they still learn in school, for example, about how to help a woman give birth. So, this technique is dangerous, and it is not just me saying it, but official medical studies. Only, yes, in Romania, unfortunately, these medical studies arrive probably decades late. Here you have another image where you can now see what it means for a woman to strain. Do you see her in the image? She is breathing exactly with this Valsalva technique. What does Valsalva mean? Exactly what I showed you. The jaw clenches. Do you see how she clenches her jaw? Yes, and this jaw clenching causes the vagina to clench. And when I clench my vagina, the baby who should pass through the vagina will be caught as if in a vise. Besides that, besides catching the baby as if in a vise because we clench our jaw and grit our teeth, the woman is at risk of cardiac arrest or a heart attack due to the pressure created when she starts to strain. So, when you are told how and when to push, you are actually not listening to your body, because your body does not force you and does not create such sensations, because there is another breathing option so you do not endanger your life or your baby's life, who could be caught in the vagina like in a vise. And now I want to give you arguments for the fact that jaw clenching leads to vaginal clenching, because there is logic to this. And it is not voodoo, it is not esotericism, it is simply not just logical, but physiological. That is, how the body works. Before that, I want to show you what the most common problems are after using this Valsalva technique in a woman's body. Do you see this girl? This woman? After birth, her eye simply fell out. Because it popped out of the socket from how much she pushed on her back, right? Lying on the back is another story. We discuss this in the course about positions during birth. And because of the forced pushing, her face was swollen, and her eyeball popped out of the socket due to the intraocular pressure created by this straining caused by the Valsalva technique. Besides being able to pop your eyeball out of its socket, capillaries can also burst, meaning your eyes can become bloodshot. And from here, of course, again, we are advised to do the wrong thing. After that, all doctors conclude that natural birth is dangerous because you can have eye problems, especially if you wear glasses. But why? Because this Valsalva technique can cause retinal detachment or, yes, pop your eye out of its socket. But they do not consider that the technique is wrong, and the woman is not encouraged to breathe correctly and manage her labor. And when she is advised to strain, this is what happens. There is a major risk of retinal detachment and the eyeball popping out of the socket. It is horrifying! I can tell you from my own experience that with my first child, I ended up giving birth on my back. I do not even remember why I accepted that, but I was so exhausted after sixty-three hours that I would have accepted anything, even a C-section, because I did not know how to get the baby out. The pressure was so great that my eyes became bloodshot, and I had red eyes for about a week after giving birth. My face was swollen, because, as you can see here, the whole face is swollen from the pressure, from that pushing (sound), right? When you do that, your neck swells, your face swells, your eyes pop out of their sockets because you are straining. That is why. Here you see again a picture: birth on the back, yes, with the wonderful Valsalva technique, which creates intracranial pressure, swelling, and facial puffiness. These are the good cases. Retinal detachment and the eyeball popping out of the socket are horror, and the worst cases are, yes, cardiac arrest and other things. So, here you see again a woman after a birth, after a birth with the Valsalva technique, she created so much intracranial and intraocular pressure that her capillaries burst in her eyes, her face swelled, and here you see another woman again with facial swelling. And all this is because someone told her how and when to push, and she did not listen to her body. Because you will see that the technique I will present to you in a few minutes will help you avoid swelling, facial puffiness, and will make expulsion easier. But, first of all, we do not give birth on our backs. And I talk about giving birth on your back in another very detailed course, so you can understand why it is not natural or physiological to give birth on your back. Women give birth on their backs only when forced. The special expulsion technique, also called expulsion vocalization, was created by me and is related to all the functions and organs our body has and actually helps with an easy and fast expulsion, so the woman is relieved and the baby does not remain in the vagina too long, because it is not pleasant for the baby to be pressed there either. And now, let's do a bit of anatomy. Yes, I will show you some interesting images and I want to ask you a question: what part of the body does this first image represent, and this second image with different pictures? I guess you are thinking to say, okay, it is a vulva. Yes, these are some vulvas, some vulva shapes here, but here we do not have a vulva. But doesn’t it look very similar? Yes. Let’s see what this organ is that looks exactly like a vulva, like the female perineum. Look, the vocal cords, those in the throat area. They are at the end of the larynx, in the throat area, and the similarity between the vulva and the larynx is not just a coincidence. Let me go back again. The resemblance is amazing, right? The two, that is, the vulva and the larynx, are in a close physiological connection. They are on the same channel, yes, but now I will show you, physiologically and biologically, how closely connected these two things are. So, the vulva and the larynx. There are amazing similarities between the larynx and the vagina. The vagina is here. The vagina ends at the cervix. The cervix is the entrance to the uterus. The uterus is this pear-shaped organ turned downward, and in the uterus your baby will nest for nine months. What you see here are the two ovaries. I am pointing with the mouse, you should see it on your screen. And here we have the tubes that go and collect the eggs released about every twenty-eight days from the ovary. So, here we have the vagina, and here we have another kind of vagina: the larynx or vocal cords. Here is the larynx. See how similar they are, including, yes, the two arms or tubes. The larynx has the same thing, the same cavity as the uterus. It is very interesting how the larynx and the vagina are so strikingly similar. And now, let’s see how these two elements are connected. Already from embryogenesis, that is, when the embryo is formed... What you see here in the image is an embryo. Here is the head with the eye, one eye, yes, you can see the other on the other side, this here is, let’s say, the end of the embryo, which does not yet have legs. The legs will appear in this area much later. But, indeed, the embryo has a rather strange, primate-like shape in the first months of genesis, right? Good, let’s see the jaw. And the pelvic area, they are already formed from the fifteenth day after conception. And now we have two membranes. The buccopharyngeal membrane, meaning the mouth, which will be here at the end, is not yet formed. And the cloacal membrane, meaning the urinary, reproductive, and digestive tract. We have the buccopharyngeal membrane, which forms here and continues, excuse me, continues the path to the cloacal membrane. So, we have the connection between the jaw, mouth, and vagina already from day fifteen. These two membranes remain connected for life, even though the distance between them keeps increasing, right? So, as embryogenesis progresses, the embryo grows, becomes a fetus, the fetus becomes a child. But the two will always be connected. That is one argument from embryogenesis. Let’s see another argument for why the jaw or mouth is strongly connected to the vagina. Let’s talk about fascia. Fascia is a connective tissue made of collagen, which envelops the entire body, as well as the organs and muscles, and holds them together. And now I want you to look a bit at this green area, the fascia that starts from the jaw, see here? And it goes down beautifully to the vagina. So, this fascia connects the pelvic area to the jaw in a perfect alignment. Of course, sciences like osteopathy and other alternative therapies know these secrets very well. Those who work on fascia know all these connections very well and will not necessarily touch you in the area where you say you have pain, but will go to the corresponding area of that painful zone. So, this is a second argument showing you now that the jaw is connected to the pelvic area. Good, and now let’s talk about sphincters. What are sphincters? Well, look, a sphincter is a circular muscle that contracts and releases. We have many sphincters in the body. It is said there are over 63, uh, over fifty, excuse me. Sphincters. We know the anal sphincter, right, when we go to defecate. Then the sphincter allows passage and closes after. So, the sphincter looks like this: cut, sectioned, yes, between two, let’s say, paths, one for access and one for exit. Sphincters are circular muscles that open or close passages in the human body. And in the human body, we have many sphincters, over fifty. In the digestive tract, as we see here, in the urinary tract, in the blood vessels. So, we have many sphincters throughout the body. And now, why are we interested in sphincters? Because there is a law of sphincters. If, for example, the vocal cords, which are here in the throat, are relaxed, the cervix will also be relaxed. Wow! If the jaw is relaxed, meaning this muscle area here, then the vagina and vulva will also be relaxed. So, this is another argument that will bring more clarity: why the upper part resembles the lower part. Why what is below is also above. The vocal cords and larynx correspond to the cervix. The cervix is what allows the baby to pass into the vagina and slide out, and the jaw is connected to the vagina and vulva. So, relaxed jaw, relaxed vagina. When I clench my teeth, the vagina will also clench and will squeeze the baby as if in a vise. Good! Another argument. In traditional Chinese medicine, it is known, and has been known for thousands of years in acupuncture and acupressure, that the jaw is connected to the pelvic area through the gallbladder meridian. So, the jaw here is connected to the pelvic area through the gallbladder meridian. So, the Chinese and traditional Chinese medicine make the same associations. So, it is not just that some people said so and that’s it. Many say the same thing. Only, unfortunately, we do not study this part of traditional, holistic medicine, and so on. We treat the human as a machine, with all sorts of separate parts, but nothing is really separate here, everything is connected. And now, there is also the emotional aspect. I want to tell you that there are very recent studies conducted by dentists—why, we are talking about the jaw, right?—and psychotherapists who have demonstrated the connection between the jaw and the pelvis, that is, jaw and pelvic area. Jaw-vagina, jaw-cervix, jaw-vulva. So, there are these studies showing that this interconnection does not stop at just two, let’s say, parts of the body. There is an interconnection between post-traumatic shocks and instantly somatized physical consequences. To help you understand better: when I suffer a shock or have had a trauma, or when I have a traumatic or post-traumatic shock, a shock after a trauma. Let’s say I find out that someone dear to me has died. That is a traumatic shock. That shock that traumatizes you will produce instant somatizations in your body. For example, when I get scared or hear something, I tense up, I stop breathing. Yes, we talked about this. My jaw clenches, I tense my buttocks, I tense my vaginal tract. Why? Because hhhhi, I enter that “hii” state and I do not let go. It is as if, hhh, I get scared and remain in shock. And now it is known and has been demonstrated in these medical and scientific studies that shock, sadness, anger, fear, totally. Frustration must be replaced by accepting consequences and healing situations. By accessing a deep state of gratitude. Wow, these are very vast topics. If you ever come to my live courses, you will understand that every shock triggers a physical trauma in our body. From emotional shocks, conflicts, frustrations, our body gets damaged, gets sick, develops all sorts of symptoms. When our body no longer functions properly because the psyche is overloaded and the body can no longer cope, the body somatizes and shows us this. And it hurts or shows us, gives us some condition. If we do not hear and do not listen, it gives us illness. If we do not listen even to the illness and do not know how to interpret what the illness means, then it gives us a rather serious illness, which can even be terminal if we do not change anything in our attitude. So, why do I say you must accept the consequences of those emotional conflicts to understand the illness or condition, and then you must resolve the conflict that generated that emotional imbalance so you can heal your body. And then, entering that state of gratitude is the way to heal. Maybe now these sound like grand words, but it is the only way people manage to heal their illnesses. Surely, you have heard phrases like “This illness changed my life.” Yes, that is why it came, because nothing else would have changed your life except something that hurts or draws your attention. So, everything that happened to you, if you did not resolve that emotional conflict as quickly as you could, it resulted in affecting your organs, body functions, or the body itself. The less you understand your body’s signals, the more you ignore it, the less you see it, perceive it, and pay attention to it, the more illnesses worsen. Because, in the end, illness only shows you what you need to heal or fix. And then, when you realize this, the healing phase already begins, because you are no longer in that state of accusation, of guilt, but you start to be grateful that you realized it and thank your body for showing you where you had unresolved emotional conflicts. I hope this explanation makes sense to you and that you understand the interconnection between emotional shocks and instant physical consequences, those that manifest immediately. Like that state of fear, yes? That “Hiii!” state when you tense up and everything tenses up. And now I want you to think about something: most women enter labor with terrible fear, because they do not know, are not informed, do not get the right information, do not prepare, do not realize how powerful the female body is and how well it knows how to manage. But by remaining in a state of fear, at the first contraction, which will of course hurt because of her contraction, yes, the woman, of course she will experience fear, and that fear amplifies with each contraction. And when I experience my birth in fear, hiii, I tense up and it hurts. That is exactly what happens. And so, women who get stuck in labor, in expulsion, are actually in a state of shock, trauma, fear. Yes? Because sadness, anger, fear, frustration—all these manifest physically through tension. If you tense up, you trap the baby in a vise, you trap him in the vagina, he cannot come out because the pathways are not open for him to come out. You are in a contraction. I want you to understand this idea so you realize it is simpler than you think. So, you really have to work on getting rid of fear, because fear will create contraction in your organs, and then the body cannot let go. It is contracted, it holds. And the baby cannot come out. These are blockages that, of course, are ninety-something percent, ninety-five percent emotional. Because emotionally you contract, and then you physically cannot let go. And now let’s analyze. The vagina. Yes, here we have the vagina. This is the entrance to the vagina. At the end of the vagina, we have the cervix, which is the entrance to the uterus. The baby... shelters for nine months in the uterus, after which the cervix opens, and during expulsion, the baby enters the vaginal canal and has only a few centimeters left to be born. And now, what do we observe and know, because there is no woman who has not touched her vagina and realized how wrinkled this organ is. Yes, it is wrinkled enough to stretch as much as needed for a baby to pass through. However, if the woman is (sound) in contraction, what happens to the vaginal muscles? They contract, they tighten. When labor is blocked, the cause is emotional. The woman has entered a (sound) blockage, and the cervix or vagina corresponds physiologically to the vocal cords or larynx. So, I contracted, everything in me contracted. I contract, I close. I relax, I open. It is very logical, but you need to understand the mechanisms so you can help your body give birth. And now, how do you tense the larynx and implicitly the vagina? Very simply. You close and narrow the vagina by tensing the neck muscles. Do you remember what it is like to strain? Look at my neck now as I strain and inhale (inhale) and hold my breath and strain, and you will see what happens to my neck. (sound) Did you see how everything swelled? How the neck clenched? Well, the neck corresponds to the vagina. If you did not know, when we have throat inflammation, the ovaries also become inflamed. Yes? So, it is very interesting what fantastic correspondences exist in the body. So, we close and narrow the vagina when we tense the neck and jaw. Look at her! She is straining, she is all tense, her jaw is clenched, her teeth are clenched. Believe me, at this moment she is not pushing the baby out, but squeezing him inside. You tense the neck muscles and tighten the vagina. This must stick in your mind so you understand that by straining, you are not pushing the baby out, but tensing the neck muscles. And now, again, I have given you here an image with a skeleton and muscles, so you understand that the jaw... has an entire strip of muscles in a spiral that tense up. So, I tensed the neck muscles, I implicitly tensed the vagina and trapped the baby in a vise. When you strain... How do we strain? We hold our breath and push. That means everything is blocked there. But look, that Valsalva technique I told you is dangerous, that is exactly what it teaches women—to hold their breath and push. Well, that means trapping the baby. So, the jaw, this part, must be relaxed, especially if you know you have bruxism. What is bruxism? Bruxism means when you grind your teeth at night or during the day, you clench your jaw so hard because you are so angry that you want to bite something, and since you have nothing to bite, you wear down your teeth. Yes? Frustrated children clench their teeth. If we have frustrations in life, we clench our teeth and develop bruxism. There are people who can only sleep with certain mouth guards so they do not wear down or damage their teeth when they clench their jaw so hard that they risk breaking molars or teeth. Yes? So, bruxism is when you grind your teeth, yes? Out of anger, unconsciously. But it is something you can manage by addressing the emotion that creates so much anger and resolving the emotion that creates anger. Good, so the jaw must be relaxed, especially if you know you clench your teeth, meaning you have bruxism. The vagina must be relaxed, especially if you know you suffer from vaginismus. That is, a vagina so impenetrable that you cannot have intercourse. Or if you know that in childhood or at some point you had sexual traumas or abuse. Whether it happened then or later, it does not matter. Any attempted rape leaves consequences. My dears, if you have had such problems, if you know or are not sure, but vaguely remember something, resolve this issue, because these are the biggest blockages that happen exactly during birth. Because there is a trauma there, in the vagina, that has not been forgotten, because the body does not forget. Our cells do not forget. And when we have to give birth to our child exactly in the area where the trauma, sexual abuse, sexual trauma occurred, that is where the story ends. I have countless examples of women who experienced abuse in childhood and who could not give birth naturally because they were blocked in the trauma and abuse that happened years before birth. So, you know you suffer from bruxism? You know you suffer from vaginismus? Or you had sexual traumas or abuse in childhood? Please, do not go into birth like this. Please do not think that if you forgot or buried the subject, it is resolved, no? You might have some terrible traumas during birth. And it is not worth it. For example, I suffer from vaginismus. For example, if you have something like that, your vagina, because it was abused at some point or suffered some form of abuse, simply closed. To avoid the same thing happening again. You cannot give birth naturally that way, because it is impossible until you resolve the sexual trauma, the abuse. Nothing will happen with the birth either. So, my dears, I am telling you from personal experience. I had sexual abuse in childhood, at six or seven years old, and now that I know, I have explained to myself extremely well why I had such a difficult birth, sixty-three hours with the baby staying five hours in expulsion. I was so blocked, I have no words. So, that is what it is about. Yes, you can give birth like that, but I do not wish it on you. Now that you know these connections exist, please, put your life in order. Ask me for help, because that is what I do. I deal with traumas, I deal with exactly the things I went through and managed to heal. Because no trauma is too strong for you not to be able to heal it. Any trauma can be healed, I promise! Because I have been there and I know what it is like. That is why I want to sound the alarm so you realize the seriousness of this and your responsibility to heal these abuses. Because if not, not only will you pass them on, you will suffer and pass them on to the next generation. And I do not think you want that, especially since we are the first generation to have so many emotional healing tools and help at our disposal. We have people who can help us do this. Good, let’s finish a sensitive topic. The secret—I do not know if you knew or not, I mean couples—but the vagina accumulates all of a woman's stresses. The less amorous interaction there is, the more a woman manifests these frustrations accumulated in the vagina in a disharmonious way. Dear men, this is good news. You know what you have to do. Only, the more frustrated the woman is, the harder it is to get there. Here you already need a plan, romance. You know better how to get there. But the more frustrated she is, the more she will refuse you. And then it is like a chain of weaknesses. When we know the problem is there, we cannot even get there, because it is exactly the first thing we close. When a woman is not well and is frustrated or upset or angry, it is over. That is the first place she closes, and that should be, let’s say, the first place to take care of. So, you know what you have to do. And yes, it is recommended to have amorous interactions even while pregnant, because otherwise, the baby will not come out either. Men—I have met many—who are afraid to make love to a pregnant woman. They have an unfounded fear, because that fear is not justified. It is inherited from whoever once said that it harms the baby, and that is it. No. The more you block amorous activity, especially during pregnancy and before or after, the more things deteriorate in the couple. Things deteriorate emotionally for the woman, and the less she is touched, the grumpier she becomes. I apologize for the explicit words, but I want to make sure you have correctly understood all these manifestations. And yes, of course, it is not just amorous interaction, it is also emotional interaction, loving interaction. So, here you need to know your mechanisms for opening up and allowing harmonious, loving interaction, of course. (pause) And now I ask you to do a test. It is a simple test you can do next time you shower, and I want you to do the following: insert two fingers into your vagina and strain. And I want you to see and feel how the vaginal muscles will gently squeeze your fingers, but not squeeze them to push them out, but squeeze them, because that is what happens! When a woman strains, the vagina wraps around the baby's body or head and squeezes it like a vise. Why do I give you this test? So you can be sure and convince your mind that what we have discussed so far is not a story, but physiology. It is very important. You can do this test together, partners, yes? And now the big question: how do you relax the larynx? Very well, through vibration. What does it mean for my larynx to vibrate? Speak something and see if your larynx vibrates. Of course it vibrates. Sounds produce vibration. So, to relax my larynx, I need to make guttural sounds. Guttural sounds are those we make when making love. Those are guttural sounds emitted from the depth of the throat, like moans. Or when you groan, yes, when you groan, when you lament, then you emit guttural sounds. So, it is clear, yes, words also produce vibrations in the larynx. Articulating them requires thinking, which activates the mind. Why? So now I want you to understand why I do not ask you to recite Eminescu poems when you give birth? Because I do not need you to memorize, I just need you to produce sounds. Or why I do not ask you to sing a song? No, I need you to produce guttural sounds that do not activate your mind. Is that clear? So, what kind of sounds do not activate the mind? Well, sounds you do not think about. Those sounds you make, for example, when making love. Those are sounds you do not think about, because in those moments you are not thinking. If you are thinking, it means the sex is not good. Excuse me, but that is the truth. When a woman and a man are in ecstasy, they do not think. They make sounds without thinking about what kind of sounds they make or how they do it or what they do. Because when you activate your mind, we no longer need the mind during birth, but only the guttural sound that relaxes the larynx. Why? Because we need it to relax the vagina and vaginal muscles and the perineum and everything that corresponds on the same line, yes? Good. And now let’s see where the cervix is. Here is the cervix. It is open. The baby is already almost in the woman’s vagina and it is the first gate before the baby slides into the vagina. So, when the cervix opens, the baby’s head simply slides into the vaginal canal. And now, how can I produce a relaxed cervix? Very simply. I want you to moan. I want you to make a guttural moan through vibration and sound. That is, a woman who moans during contractions helps her cervix open. I do not think I need to show you now how to moan, to mo...

You realize that this is not about doing things my way. You will do things your way when you moan, when you make guttural sounds from a relaxed throat, right? That is a relaxed throat, it is a guttural moan. And now, another science-fiction demonstration, yes? In order to relax the vagina, you need to relax not only the cervical muscles, but also the cervical muscles, shoulders, neck muscles, and facial muscles, meaning the jaw, all these facial muscles. So, we need not only to keep our shoulders relaxed. So, we don’t sit like this, but we stay relaxed. That’s why women in labor need to stay relaxed and relax not only their body, but also their neck, shoulders, jaw, and facial muscles. The more a woman is grimacing, with her eyes tightly shut, more (sounds like the nose is wrinkling), the worse it is. The woman needs to have a relaxed face in order to relax the rest. The more she is—yes, then the same tension is reproduced and produced below as well.

And now, practically, in order to vocalize—because that’s what I called it, vocalization breathing, if you remember—in order to vocalize or moan, the mouth and jaw need to be relaxed, so the lips need to be relaxed, the jaw needs to be relaxed, the mouth needs to be relaxed. The tongue, yes? All the organs need to be relaxed. And now, the vibration of your vocal cords will relax the pelvic area, that “Haaa,” yes, that you make at that moment will even relax your pelvic area. And here we see again a very beautiful similarity. This is the pelvic area. Here we have the vagina, the anus, and here we have the vocal cords. Look how similar they are. Even in shape. And now let’s see which vowel we should emit so that the jaw, tongue, mouth, and lips are as relaxed as possible. I gave you an example of A, E, I, O, and U. Now I want you to repeat with me: A, E, I, O, and U. Which one seems the most relaxed and suitable vowel for keeping all the facial muscles relaxed? Obviously, it’s A, correct, because A is very relaxed. So, the most relaxed vocalization will be “Haaa.” Why do I add that H? Because you can make an A and strain, which we don’t want. As I said, we don’t hold our breath like when we strain. When we strain, we hold our breath. And I could make an A like that (sounds like straining) a, but it’s not an open A. So, I need a “haaa,” right? I’ll do it again so you understand how it’s done. I inhale, and my body will tell me I need to push, and then I don’t hold my breath, but I let the air out while pushing. I do this: Haaa. And these will be the moans or vocalizations you can make when you feel the need to push, because it will be a very open Haaa. When I do Haaa, the vocal cords will go haaa, they will relax from the sound and will also relax the vulva. So, the vocal cords vibrating on Haaa also relax the vulva. So, we’re not just singing here. You’ll be singing down there, too. Only it won’t be heard, but the idea is—by the way, (laughs) I once saw, I think on IUmor, yes, incredible! A woman came who sang with her vulva and actually made sounds because she managed to introduce air into her vulva and it was like a kind of whistling. So cool, right? I don’t know how or what she did, but I just want to give you the example that there are vocal cords in the throat and a vulva that is relaxed and can be contracted. And yes, if you let out Hhhh, with air, H—the next is actually the combination of A with air, right? Because when you let the air out, it forms Hhhh, the H, yes? Which actually isn’t a vowel, but it’s the air coming out with that open A. I hope you understand what I mean.

And now, this is a rose, just so you don’t get scared. A relaxed vulva means more elastic, more permissive, more vascularized vaginal walls and muscles, because we’re not tensing them, right? We allow the blood to vascularize. And vascularized means, re-vascularized, means relaxed. It means they are elastic, they stretch more easily, and they are much more permissive. So, when my vulva is relaxed, the vaginal walls and muscles are just as relaxed and open much more easily for the baby to pass through. So, everything is connected. All you need to remember is to do that Haaa to allow passage. And don’t strain, because you can push with that haaa, when you let the air out. It’s very simple.

And now, what does it mean when a woman vocalizes? It means she has a relaxed cervix, a relaxed vagina, a relaxed vulva, so the baby comes out easily and the birth will be shorter and easier. You see her with her mouth open and moaning? That’s what I want to hear from you. And believe me, trills, screams, howls, roars, everything has been heard in a maternity ward. I worked there, I know how it is. So, those women, when they hear a guttural sound or a vocalization, they’ll be happy you’re not screaming like you’re being cut, because those screams are not about relaxation, but about fear, horror, agony. Yes, there’s nothing there, uh, vocalized and beautiful. Yes?

And actually... Usually in my courses I show some very beautiful birth videos and you’ll see them if you come to my live course with me. Uh, when there are scenes like this where the woman gives birth freely, in the way she wants, in a gravitational position, accompanied, in an intimate setting, she will vocalize. And this type of vocalization is very interesting. If I stopped the image and left only the sound, many would think I put on a porn movie. But it’s not. It’s a birth video. But the woman vocalizes so beautifully that you can’t tell it’s not about birth. So, a woman who screams is not vocalizing. Now I hope you understand the difference. And now, a free woman will always choose gravitational positions and will moan and vocalize during birth, and the man will cry. I assure you. Not only will the man cry. I have cried at births. It’s so beautiful and uplifting that you don’t cry out of pity. You cry from the wonder of the miracle happening there.

The moans during birth are part of every woman’s right to the freedom to do what she feels in very intense moments. This is what a birth looks like, with a woman in a semi-trance, making sounds, moaning, and it’s absolutely normal, because that’s physiological. That’s how she helps her body give birth. And the difference between moans—look again at the previous picture—and screams and cries of pain and suffering is like night and day. This woman is not moaning, nor is this one, nor this one. They are screaming from pain and suffering.

And now, what should you do when you feel the urge to push? Well, it’s very simple. The expulsion contractions give you that sensation that you need to push and you will feel that you have to push. And in those moments, I just want to ask you to moan and push on “haaa!” With confidence and courage. So moan and push, moan and push. That’s what you need to do. Write it down: moan and push. Dear men, when she’s in expulsion and everyone around starts saying now you have to push, strain, do this, do that. No! Whisper in her ear: moan and push. Haaa! That’s it! Moan and push haaa! And breathe with them. Because women, usually during expulsion, lose themselves. Especially since everyone jumps on her during expulsion and tells her what to do. And most get lost and decompensate and listen and it’s valsalva. And you don’t want anything to happen to her. So write it down: moan and push. Haaa! I don’t know, write it on your palm in case you forget so you have it there and whisper to her: moan and push. And do haaa! With confidence and courage, because that’s how the baby comes out. I guarantee it. Moan and push with your mouth open and do haaa! Take a picture! Yes? And print this out because you need to know it.

What to do when you feel the urge to push? Again, moan and push. Ha! With all the power your body gives you, because you have fantastic power. In those moments, women move mountains. I assure you. This is birth, not sex. By the way, about the picture. This is what birth looks like. The woman pushing on haaa and delivering her baby. So, you know what you have to do.

And one more very important thing. It is absolutely, absolutely, absolutely forbidden to push when you don’t have a contraction. That’s when you tear. That’s when you ruin your vagina. After that, they’ll stitch you up for an hour. So, when you don’t have a contraction, no one is allowed to tell you anything. If you have a midwife or doctor who tells you to push when you don’t have a contraction, please don’t listen. Anyway, there’s nothing to listen to, because they’ll teach you valsalva. Dangerous, right? So, between contractions, the woman rests like this. And nothing hurts. That’s the beauty of birth. It’s divided into many moments like this, where the woman can truly catch her breath. That’s why women can withstand labor. So, between contractions we don’t push, we rest, is that clear? Only when your body tells you and shows you and you feel—you can’t not realize when you feel the urge to push. It’s only during a contraction, never in between. Between contractions, nothing hurts. The only thing you’ll feel if the baby is already in the vagina or vulva, you’ll feel pressure, but you won’t feel pain like you do during contractions. So, we only push during contractions.

The breathing technique for expulsion, meaning vocalization during expulsion, will only be effective if you do it automatically, without thinking. It’s exactly the same as the dilation technique. For it to be effective, it has to become a reflex. And yes, you have to repeat it daily. But here’s a condition. We only repeat this vocalization breathing technique for expulsion at a certain time of day, which I’ll present to you now. Tadaaaam! When will you practice the expulsion technique? It is repeated daily only during defecation. When you go to have a bowel movement, only then. That’s it. Not at any other time. And then, instead of pushing, straining, you will do Haaa! And push. And push again. Haaa! And push. And you’ll see, no matter how constipated you are, it will come out much easier than if you strain and do what we used to do. Here is this technique that is effective, by the way, men can do it too, women can practice it as well. It is super effective. It is much better than straining, right? Because when we strain, we hold and don’t release. Our eyes pop out, but nothing comes out. Whereas with Haaa, it will come out and it comes out much easier and you don’t pop your eyes out, you don’t create intra-abdominal pressure. It’s not that valsalva technique. Right? So, when do we practice the expulsion technique? Only during defecation. Simple. From now on, from your bathroom, when someone has a bowel movement, you’ll hear Haaa. I’m sorry. Actually, I’m glad you’ll adopt this. It’s like that trend when we all realized we don’t defecate correctly and we need a stool to keep our knees a bit more bent so it comes out easier. Exactly the same thing. From now on, after you do this technique, you’ll see it works much easier and you’ll adopt it. It’s like the stool technique at the toilet, so you can even write a note and put it in front of the toilet so you see it when you’re on the throne, right? Let’s do Haaa and no one will know what that haaa written on the wall means. And everyone will say, “Wow, these people are so funny, writing Haaa in front of the toilet!” You’ll know why. And I really want you to make that note, put it in front of the toilet, so when you’re on the throne, you see it and apply it. Because this is the only way a woman, before birth, can practice the expulsion technique. And it’s worth it. Every bowel movement is worth doing with this technique, because it will make your birth much easier.

That’s about it. And thank you for staying. And yes, don’t forget: push and vocalize on Haaa. Have an easy birth!