Hello, my dear, I am Dita Depner and I am glad to see you again today for a lesson about what vernix is. That little body butter. By the way, “body butter” because it’s like a body butter for the baby in the womb. You’ll see why the baby has this body butter on his skin. We’ll talk about when vernix forms during pregnancy, what the vernix on your baby’s skin contains, so you can understand a bit about the value of vernix, and we’ll also discuss the magic hour, that first gaze, which is the most important connection, later enhanced by the oxytocin that comes with it. What should you do with the vernix on your newborn’s skin? We’ll also talk about what color the baby is at birth, and what color a baby born in water has. Because there is a slight difference between babies born in water and those born in air. What do we do in the first minutes after the baby is born? So, a very important lesson, with lots of clues. What should we do after the baby arrives? Because everyone prepares for birth, but very few talk about that part—OK, what do we do after the baby is born? So let’s begin, let’s talk about vernix and the color of the baby at birth.

In this picture, you see a baby who has something whitish on him. He also had a blanket, but they took the blanket off. That’s why the vernix you see has a blanket pattern. It’s a cream, a kind of body butter that protects the baby’s skin for nine months and at birth. Why for nine months? Because our babies grow in an aquatic environment. And if you remember when you used to take a bath and your skin would wrinkle from being in the water, that’s exactly what happens to babies. Their skin would wrinkle if they didn’t have, if they hadn’t had this vernix for nine months, acting as—I don’t even know how to call it—as a kind of diving suit, so the skin doesn’t wrinkle during the nine months spent in water, in amniotic fluid.

Vernix is that protective layer that will be absorbed into the skin a few hours after birth. Here, in this picture, you see the vernix, which is a bit more yellowish here and a bit thicker. Here you can clearly see what this body butter looks like. It’s called vernix caseosa. It’s a cheesy substance with remarkable properties. Why? Because it continues to hydrate the skin after birth, smoothing and softening it, exactly what a butter does. It has immunological properties and helps regulate temperature outside the womb. So it’s the baby’s little coat. Some babies receive this thicker coat, like this one, with very prominent vernix on the skin. And some babies don’t have as much vernix and come a bit more “undressed.” By the way, vernix starts to form from the twentieth week of pregnancy. Here you see again a baby more “dressed” in vernix. He has thicker “clothes.” And this vernix, this body butter, contains proteins found only there, lipids, amino acids, antibacterial components, cholesterol, wax, triglycerides, glycogen, phospholipids, glutamine. And vernix has antihemolytic and antimicrobial action. How amazing! Even if you wanted such a cream, such a body butter, you couldn’t make it yourself. With all the things it contains! So, you can see what it looks like, you can see it even on the mother’s bra. Vernix doesn’t smell, it’s not disgusting, it’s nothing like—I don’t know, I’ve heard all sorts of things. The baby comes with this coat, it’s his, it’s like his protective layer. Here you see again a baby who comes with quite a lot of vernix on his back—look at him.

By the way, in another lesson, in the lesson about breech birth, I talk about the importance of the gaze or the first gaze and the first connection with the mother and with the father. Because, speaking of this, the baby, at the moment of birth and a bit before, receives a kind of adrenaline release, which manifests as excessive alertness. So, babies, when they are born, are very attentive, very alert, and their goal is to meet the gaze of their mother and father. If this doesn’t happen, they remain in a state of alertness, and that adrenaline doesn’t leave their body. But if their gaze meets the gaze of the mother and father, then the baby instantly calms down and that wave of oxytocin comes, which creates bonding, the magic hour, and that secure and beautiful attachment that forms between the baby and his parents.

Good, let’s say we give birth and receive a baby with a thick coat of vernix. What do we do with the vernix? The vernix is gently massaged into the skin until it is absorbed. It has no smell, so it’s like a body butter, only it’s natural. I mean, what more could you want? It’s natural, it doesn’t smell. It’s perfect even for the hand that massages it in. Look here, a more prominent body butter, a baby who has just come out and the mother took a picture of how much vernix he had on his skin. And acclaimed.

Now, very importantly, I want to talk about the color of the newborn in the first minutes after birth, because all newborns, when they are born, turn purple. Yes, you heard right. They turn purple. They are not pink, not skin-colored, not nude. They are all purple, because that’s how babies are born. Why are they purple? Because at the moment of birth, many things happen in a baby’s body. First of all, organs that haven’t functioned until then are activated, breathing through the nose and with oxygen directly from the air is activated. Because until then, your baby was supplied with oxygen to the brain directly through the umbilical cord. Now, when he takes his first breath through his nose into his lungs and fills his lungs with air for the first time, it triggers a bluish or purplish coloring of the skin, because the way oxygenation happens changes. So it’s absolutely normal.

And if you’ve ever heard in your childhood from your mother or someone else that you almost died at birth because you were all purple, know that this is just a mistaken belief. All babies, when they are born, are purple for a few minutes, then they recover. Purple doesn’t mean you were bruised and almost died. Purple shows a normal physiological process. So, if you had this idea that you almost died at birth because your mother said how purple you were, know that it’s not true. It was just your mother’s fright, who thought something happened to you because no one told her that all babies are purple when they are born. In this image, you can clearly see the difference between the mother, who has normal skin, and the baby, who turns purple and then, after a few minutes, returns to a pinkish-red skin. All newborns are bluish in the first minutes of life. It’s that bluish color, yes, which, outside the uterus, is what the first minutes of life look like.

Here you can again see how purple and bluish this baby is, because it’s a photo from the first seconds after birth, so nothing to be scared of. All newborns are purple and then recover. The color of the newborn at a water birth returns to normal, meaning pink, a few minutes later compared to babies born in air. Why? Because there is a different timing, yes, in which the baby, when born, doesn’t breathe immediately. Because if he is born in water, the baby will take his first breath when his nose and mouth meet the air. So, if I give birth in water, the baby comes out into the water from the vagina, and the first breath will be taken only when I lift him to my chest. This delay can last even a minute. Because babies born in water in a gentle way stay in the water for up to a minute, then are gently lifted, just so they can realize where they’ve arrived. And if you come to my live online course with me, I will show you some videos where you will actually see how the newborn, just born in water, is born with big, open eyes and tries to see where he has arrived. Because what is he looking for? He’s looking for his parents’ gaze. Why? Because he has that adrenaline in his body, which is transmitted from the mother. The mother also experiences maximum adrenaline in those moments. And when these two gazes meet, mother with child and father with child connect, in that moment, the adrenaline subsides, meaning it goes away, and oxytocin comes with love, affection, bonding like you’ve never experienced before. That’s why babies need to connect and look into your eyes, so they can calm down at your chest, in your arms.

Here we have a baby who has just been put to the breast. His color is still reddish. Mommy received a reward, she gets food, because, believe me, birth is a huge energy expenditure and every woman is ravenous after giving birth and has every right to order herself something extraordinary. So don’t rely on the hospital catering, because it’s “meh,” yes? Get yourself, I don’t know, a menu and order whatever your heart desires, because you can eat very good things after birth and you have no restrictions. Thank you for watching and see you at the next course. Have a wonderful day!