Hello, my dear! I am Dita Depner and I am glad to see you at this very important lesson about the magic hour. The magic hour, which, as you will see, is not just a magic hour. I will explain to you what the magic hour is. I will explain how long it lasts, because many maternity hospitals, especially now that they know women are more informed, promise that magic hour and it ends up being only about three minutes. That is not the magic hour, so I will explain to you exactly in this course how long the magic hour lasts, what magic happens during this time, in these first hours after the baby is born, and we will talk in great detail about the impressions the newborn receives in these first hours after birth. We will talk about the limbic imprint, which we have all processed and is imprinted in our bodies, in our minds, and literally in our bodies. We will talk about where all these first memories are stored. I will also tell you why the body remembers, because yes, this is a big secret. Even if the conscious mind forgets, it has a secret place that never forgets, the subconscious. And yes, the body does not forget either. That is why the body is somehow considered our best friend, precisely because it tells us so much about our past. That is why we will talk about what major traumas occur if the child is taken away from the mother, as happens in about ninety percent of hospitals worldwide. We will talk about those emotional shocks at birth that the child experiences in the first minutes of life. What routine actions traumatize the baby? Or do you know about those standard treatments that are offered to you and you don't know about because you haven't studied them? We will talk about what your rights are and your baby's rights at birth and after birth. We will discuss the baby's perceptions after birth, because the child records everything, just as we recorded everything from our own birth. We will talk about those standard routine measurements after birth and, after we go through all those standard measures that are also part of the birth plan, which I recommend you complete so you know the hospital procedures, we will also talk about that magic meeting, which very often does not even take place, because babies are taken away from their mothers and do not get to be breastfed, even though the first milk is the most important milk. But we will not go into the subject of breastfeeding today, we will only touch on it because it is part of the magic hour. Good. We are talking about the magic hour. Please take something to write with, because there are many things you should write down somewhere so you can review your notes later. We will talk about the most important imprints that remain for life in your child, in you, in your partner. Because all these memories, which are part of our lives, imprint and shape our personality, give us all kinds of abilities, all kinds of characteristics, and make us react in certain ways in crisis situations. Good. The magic hour is very important. It is, in fact, that "Welcome to this world, dear child!" Immediately after birth, the woman holds her child in her arms and that infinite love happens, because it is not love at first sight, as we know it. It is infinite love at first sight, because, by the way, the love that two parents feel, yes, the couple, when they hold their baby for the first time, immediately after birth, that is, in the first seconds after birth, when they hold their baby in those seconds, hormonally triggers in them an avalanche of love they have never felt before in their lives, not even when you were in love and had butterflies in your stomach. Not even then did you have as much love as you will have when you see and hold your baby. It is one thing for them to bring the baby to you in the neonatal ward and just show it to you. Then none of that infinite love is triggered. And it is another thing to receive your baby because it is yours. You carried it for nine months and suddenly it is taken from your arms. That is not normal. It is another thing to hold it in your arms, to bond with it, to feel this infinite love. Because these are the golden hours after birth. Why are they golden hours? Because they cannot be recovered, and that is why I have been working for so many years already. Healing this trauma of separation at birth. Because most of us, I think ninety-five percent of the world's population, were taken away from our mothers and did not see our mothers for two or three days in the hospital. We will talk about this trauma. And the irony is that this drama can be healed ninety-nine percent, but with a lot of work, because once, if, let's say, you had a previous birth and it was traumatic, you must first heal yourself, as a mother or as a couple. And after that, once you are healed, you will be able to heal your child as well. And yes, birth or the ritual of birth can be repeated. But it is so much work. And I tell you this from the perspective of a prenatal educator and trauma therapist. Because the sessions I have with mothers who had traumatic births and suffered after that birth or had depression, those sessions are work, a lot of work, and last at least six weeks, during which we meet at least once a week, four or five hours, after which there is more work with yourself. So these golden moments after birth can be recovered, but with consequences. That is why I urge you so much to hold on to this magic hour, because it is worth it. It is worth it for you, as mothers. It is worth it for your child, because the child enters this world believing that, as he is received, that is how the world works. If the child does not see his mother, as happens now in ninety percent of births, the child feels lost. You have to think like this. For nine months the child was inside you and that is how he learned that the world works. Before being born, he does not know that another path is coming, a change is coming, and a major change is coming. It is not just a change in my diet. Everything changes, the environment changes, the way of feeding changes, everything changes. It is like going from ultra all-inclusive in the mother's belly. Suddenly, the child receives a conditional mother, a mother who is no longer always by his side, her arms no longer hold and comfort him. Because, who knows, that mother believes the child must be independent from the first day after birth. And many of these imprints, which we ourselves received from our own parents, influence our instinct that tells us: "When the child cries, go and hold him, no matter how many times he cries and for how long." Because the child does not believe he will survive without his primary source, that is, the mother. The mother is the one who gave life. The mother is the god, without the mother, that child does not exist. So separation from the mother is an existential problem for him, it is a matter of life and death. The child does not anticipate, when he is taken from his mother, that he will see her in two hours. He does not know what time is. If you watch a child, say five or six years old, he still does not understand what time is. He will ask you how many more times he has to sleep until you go on vacation. Right? He does not perceive, he does not know what tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day before yesterday, or yesterday is. He cannot grasp such concepts. The child is in the now. He lives in the now. If his mother, in those key moments, is not there—and all moments are key, because the child does not believe he can survive outside the mother, without the mother. And that is the truth. It is a natural and normal instinct that we all have and which, yes, was deeply disrupted when we found ourselves alone in the world. Because the first experiences in a hospital, in a maternity ward, are being alone in the world. Because we were soothed, mmm, that is, with aaa... With all kinds of substances like the bottle with formula, phenobarbital. To keep things quiet in the neonatal ward. And even now, children are still born this way. So, the place of the newborn is at the mother's chest. Nowhere else, not at measurements, not with some neonatologist. As long as the child is born, breathes, and is okay. So, after a physiological birth or a birth, let's say, with complications, you first look to see how the child is. If the child is fine, you have no reason to separate him. There are so many studies about how much separation from the mother affects the child's physical health. Not to mention the emotional aspect, but it has been observed that those children who were born prematurely by a month, two, or three, self-regulate and heal and grow better when reunited with their mother. I cannot even tell you that in Romania, if you give birth prematurely, you might not see your child for weeks or be able to hold him. So, here there is no such notion in Romania, but everywhere else in the world this is encouraged, it is called "kangaroo care." It is called kangaroo care. Why? What does a kangaroo have? It has a pouch, and the baby, after—, the baby kangaroo, after it is born, goes into that pouch where it stays for several more weeks and somehow lives there until it is big enough to start being interested in the world outside, outside its mother. So, we are mammals, just like kangaroos, just like other animals, even like non-mammals. For example, chicks that, yes, are born, not like humans and other mammals, but come out of an egg that the hen broods. So, what happens after the chicks come out of the egg? As you know, they stay around their mother, warming themselves near her all the time. The chicks are not taken to another room, another chamber. They need their mother until they start to manage on their own, to feed themselves, and to move away from the mother more and more. That is how it is. This is the way. We are all super needy in the first months, and the difference between, say, an animal cub, also a mammal like us, is huge. The animal might mature in two or three months or even faster, while a two- or three-month-old baby is just as needy. That is, he needs his mother to survive, or someone else to survive. So we cannot even compare mammals among themselves, but the idea is that we cannot see ourselves as the only mammals who build separate nests for their young. How weak, how crazy is that! To see that you are actually the only species on this earth that builds separate nests for its young. No one makes separate rooms. Not even a bird makes ten more nests for its chicks. They all stay near the mother, and this is so natural that in this crazy and, I don't know, emotionally damaged world, we have come to believe that if we keep our baby close, we spoil him, we ruin him, he will develop too strong attachments. It is exactly the opposite. And all studies show that it is exactly as it should be, for the baby to be attached to the mother, because it is a natural attachment. It is a natural need to have a companion during the period when you cannot manage on your own. So that fear that, oh my, if I hold him now, he will get used to it and learn bad habits, is a great madness, a great madness of our era, in which we, as children, were raised with the idea of let him cry, he has to learn that life is hard, he is not allowed to sleep with his mother because he will leave his mother's bed at 15, or that it is not good to hold him and comfort him because he will be spoiled. These are pure madnesses that have deviated, emotionally speaking, so here we are, now needing psychologists and therapists, because we realize how messed up we are. Right? This is about therapy and repressed emotions, feelings of fear, abandonment, loneliness. They all start in our first moments after birth. Yes, exactly so. Our first moments after birth formatted us in such a way that today we live dramas, toxic relationships, fear of loneliness, fear of abandonment, because then we were abandoned and did not know if we would see our mother again, because as I told you, the child does not anticipate. The child does not know that in three days you will get home to your mother and everything will be fine and you will get mother's milk and you will not cry inconsolably anymore. And so on. So, the magic hour is the most important gift and the strongest and most valuable gift that you are obliged to give your child, so that he does not repeat the same things we have repeated, maybe for generations. Because they do not need therapy if they are not imprinted with these negative emotions from birth. It is as if the first experience you had somehow defines how the others will be. Even if they are distinct experiences, your mind will always associate and compare with that first experience. Let's make your child's experience memorable, but in the most beneficial way. And let's hold him to our chest, as we should have been held. Let's give him love. Let's enjoy that infinite love that happens right then, in the first minutes after birth. Why does that infinite love happen, which surpasses by at least a hundred times any feelings of love, infatuation, that you have ever experienced? Why do we function like this, as a species? It is very simple. So that we do not abandon our young. Our species and all mammal species have been endowed with this mechanism. Because otherwise the species would not have survived if we had not taken care of our offspring, our children, our babies. And so the woman and the couple, both, because it is not just something you experience as a mother, but you gave birth and only you can feel it. No. Everyone who participates in the birth will feel that infinite love that is like, like a flood, it floods your whole body and you feel how this love literally overwhelms you. That is how strong it is! And I tell you, from the point of view of a woman who has attended births and left there drunk with love, I felt like hugging everyone, because that miracle of coming into the world, of a child being born, was happening. It is incredible! And you will feel exactly those feelings when you hold your child in your arms. And now, to reinforce that it is not just a belief, to help you understand why we have been endowed with this miracle of receiving more love than we were ever capable of feeling, exactly in the first moments after birth. Surely you have heard of certain women who, because of problems at home, because of lack, or because of situations at home, abandon their children at birth. They come to the hospital, give birth, and run away, because they have no other option. It is a trauma for everyone involved, not just for the woman, but also for the child, for everyone emotionally involved in such a thing. And now, you should know that a study was done showing that if that woman who intends, because of her situation, to abandon her child immediately after birth, might not do it if she holds her baby immediately after birth. The fact that they do not get to hold their baby and are not flooded with that infinite love at first sight... They manage to make that break and abandon their child. What happens hormonally in their bodies? When you do not hold your baby or your baby is taken from you or you leave him because you have no other option and have to run, because that is life. At that moment, the love hormones do not start. This avalanche of infinite love does not start. And you enter a state of coolness, of coldness, of detachment, precisely because your body has registered that the child no longer exists. It is as if the child has died. And then, so as not to trigger even greater pain, your hormones will take a break and will not trigger that fantastic love, so that you do not suffer even more than you already do. And then, yes, it happens that you can abandon your child. It happens that as a woman, when your baby is taken from your arms and just shown to you or brought dressed and seen—Oh, what a cute baby you have!—you do not feel what you thought or expected to feel, because your hormones will not be triggered half an hour later or an hour later, because they have entered that state of detachment. So the magic hour, hormonally speaking, cannot be repeated, because it is not the same. And even if I do a ritual of, let's say, reliving the birth, the mother together with the child, it is not the same intensity. Many aspects can be recovered from there, many things can be healed, but it is not the same, because you cannot trick your body into reliving the same thing again. Because birth is unique. That is why women whose babies were taken from their arms and did not see them even for just half an hour or an hour, or five, or ten, or two days, will not have the chance to bond in this way with their own child and will have depression. Because, hormonally speaking, the body enters depression. It enters depression because the biological program was not fulfilled. Yes, hard things. That is why I am telling you all these things, so that you know and so that the magic hour is not just something you would like to do, but something you must do. It is a sacred thing that you, as a mother, promise your child, because you know very well what it means to fear loneliness, to fear abandonment, and your child does not need to come into this life with these energies. I want you to look, please, at this picture. I want you to look together at this picture and see how all the members participating in this birth, whether it is the grandmother or the midwife. The little girl, who is probably the older sister, and the father and mother, feel exactly what I am trying to describe to you in so many words for about fifteen minutes. So, what happens hormonally and emotionally? Those moments of irremediable and reciprocal infatuation actually represent the greatest release of oxytocin of all time. For all participants, whether they are family or not. You have never experienced so much oxytocin, I guarantee you, because the situation does not repeat itself. By the way, as I was saying about women who are able and in a situation to abandon their children and run from the hospital after giving birth and abandon them there. Babies have another quality, besides being born, let's say, unlucky to come to a mother who cannot take on, let's say, motherhood, yes? Babies have another quality. They are very cute. Have you ever adopted a little animal, a puppy, a kitten you saw as a baby on the street and who was super cute? Well, after six months, that super cute puppy was like a long, tubular dog with short legs, with an ugly face that someone else would look at now and say: "How could you take such a dog? How do you see it as cute?" Well, it was cute when it was a puppy. Exactly. So someone would adopt it. So it would not be left on the streets. That is why babies are very cute when they are small and not just cute. They are helpless and need an adult to take care of them. There is a horrific study that was done. Our humanity is fantastic in how many, pfff, emotions! Experiments have been done and it gives you goosebumps when you hear about such experiments. There were two groups of babies who were treated differently. The first group was treated as you treat a baby, you feed it, change it, talk to it, cuddle it, caress it. That group of children received everything a child receives from his mother or someone who takes care of him. There are people who take care of abandoned children and yes, they do a very good job. The second group only had their primary needs met, but without emotional involvement, without a smile. So the child was fed—the children were fed without being smiled at, without being spoken to, without being touched, only with the bare minimum when the diaper was changed. And this experiment was a horror, because I think after two months, those children who did not receive facial expressions, emotion, touch, attention, words, a warm voice, died. Yes, terrible. We are social beings. We do not need robots to raise us, not impersonal things, not artificial intelligence. We need emotions, feelings, that is why we are human. That is what makes us human. To grow in the womb of a woman, not in a—what do you call it... There are now all kinds of experiments where children are grown in artificial wombs. Those people are no longer people, they cannot become people, because in those nine months that fetus in a woman's womb learns, already learns reactions, learns from the mother's emotions, learns how the world works from the reactions and relationships the mother has with the rest of the world. The mother is, let's say, our first source of humanization. That is when we learn how the world we are coming into works. That is why the relationship with the mother represents our relationship with the outside world, with everyone. All relationships will somehow be touched by our own relationship with our mother. So it is impossible to believe that a child who grew up in an artificial environment will ever become human. He may not have a chance of survival or, yes, become a monster. Speaking of what happens emotionally with us, the baby needs to feel that, although the environment has changed, although he is no longer inside his mother, although he is no longer contained by his mother, he has arrived in a place where he feels safe, that is, his mother's arms. Because birth is the biggest change, it is the biggest change in his life so far. From nine months of ultra all-inclusive, with everything, with the mother's fears, with the mother's reactions, with the mother's experiences, whether good or not, the child has learned. The child has been imprinted with certain things. And birth is his first change. That is, he comes out of an aquatic, underwater environment and arrives in a world where everything is different. An aerial world. A world where the mother is no longer one hundred percent present. That is why a newborn baby needs one hundred percent, non-stop presence with the mother. And it is not just for a few weeks. It is for years, for years. That is why we cannot compare ourselves to other mammals when we think about how long it takes for a child to mature, when he leaves our bed, when he no longer needs his mother. That is around seven, eight, nine years old, when he starts to manage on his own. But that still does not mean he no longer needs parents. Because the child is still not an adult, right? He is not yet responsible. The brain develops until the age of eighteen. Until then, he is still learning. He is learning how to manage in this world. So, let's talk about first impressions. For the baby, what does first impression mean? I feel expected. I feel welcomed. I feel loved. I can get used to this new existence outside my mother's belly. That is what a baby who has arrived in his mother's arms after the journey that changed his life, from intrauterine to extrauterine, feels. And for the mother, birth means "I did it." He is here. He is so sweet and perfect. What a wonderful experience! For a woman, birth is a new start in a new stage of life. It is a rebirth, that is why I call my course Rebirth, because the woman is reborn at another level. From woman she becomes mother. And she enters another stage of life. Because, you will see, after you become mothers, everything changes. Perceptions change, values change, many things change that, if you do not have children, you cannot imagine. I usually say, there is a life before children and a life after children. Both these lives are very beautiful and complex, but they are very different. Because your perception changes completely. Your values change completely. Your lifestyle changes completely. Your dedication changes one hundred and eighty degrees. All these things change and it is a change that brings you even more, let's say, self-knowledge, because you will see yourself with different eyes. You will see yourself from other angles. Because you will discover another woman inside you. The woman who becomes a mother. And yes, many of the things you experienced in your own childhood will be reflected in your behavior with your own child and you will see how much you will copy, even if you hated certain things. You will see how much you copied from your own mother. Yes, that is why I say the relationship with the mother is one of the strongest relationships and is defining for who you are now. Good, returning to impressions, you should know that first impression matters, because from all these first impressions, the baby learns how things work in this world. And I repeat. The child does not learn only from the moment he is born. The child already comes with a baggage of things learned from the womb. So, when we are born, we already have some tools that simply help us survive in this world. That is why studies have shown that, for example, children born to mothers who lived in war zones develop more physical abilities, that is, muscles. Yes? Because they are in a constant fight, a constant flight, a constant fear. And children born to mothers who live in a country where there is no war and where the woman is not worried about whether something will happen tonight or not, are born with other abilities, they develop their brains more. They develop more cognitively. So, there is a big difference. And this difference is made by the pregnancy. So, exactly how the woman lives her pregnancy, that is how the child will become. If the woman lives her pregnancy in fear, in complete, continuous anxiety, the child will inherit these things and will also live in fear, in continuous anxiety, believing that something bad will always happen. That is why pregnancy is so defining and how you live it, so now I hope you are more aware and see where you can put the brakes, where you can change something, where you could improve, because you are imprinting your child already from now. Returning to first impressions, birth is the first big change in this life. So, if the child experiences birth in a beautiful way, what does that mean? If the mother experiences birth in a beautiful and harmonious way, the child will perceive the same thing. If the mother experiences birth as a trauma, the child will experience birth as a trauma. Why? They are so emotionally connected that it is copy-paste. What the child feels, the mother feels. What the mother feels is transmitted to the child. That is one thing. That is birth and the imprint from birth. But until the age of seven, the brain will continue to fill with first impressions. Why until seven? The first stage is until two and a half, three years, because then we still operate with the subconscious, and memories up to that age are recorded in the conscious mind only very little. The rest are stored in the subconscious, and from two and a half, three to seven we are in a continuous exploration and learning. Why? Because we encounter situations for the first time in our lives. It is like... Well, when I ask you—Do you remember your first kiss? And you will say yes. I hope at least it was something nice to remember. That is exactly how our body and mind are. The first time we did something, it will be imprinted as a defining experience. Everything we experience that resembles that first time will be compared to that first time, the first experience. That is why the brain, up to about 7 years old, fills with the most first impressions, after which, after 7 years, we start to, we adapt. Nothing is new anymore, that is, we no longer have first words, first quarrel, first shouts from mom, first beating, let's say, yes, as we were raised, uh, the first time we lost someone, the first time we took our first steps, the first time we spoke. So, all these things, the first time we went to kindergarten and got really sick, because what? What happened at kindergarten? We were separated from mom. Why did we get sick? Because we wanted to go home. It is very simple when you understand, biologically speaking, what our survival programs are. Children are attached to their mother, they are attached to their only chance of survival. That is what the mother means for a newborn: a chance at survival. The less responsible the woman is, the more the child will try to find ways to survive. How can he? That is how we survived, mothers who were not mentally prepared to become mothers, mothers who were too young, mothers who were too inexperienced and, well, who goes? Even now, today, no one educates you on what it means to be a mother or how to behave to be a good mother? So we find all kinds of survival mechanisms to cope, to stay alive. And this struggle is called childhood. And yes, in my live, online course we will do exactly and talk exactly about these topics, to see what imprints we have and what we carry towards the birth of our child. Because the couple itself carries, each, the mother, the father, carries with them what unconscious or subconscious memories they had from birth and from the first years of childhood. Even those memories we do not know, do not remember, they exist only in the unconscious part of our mind. But you will see that all these unresolved things turn into complications at birth. That is why I insist so much that you are at least curious, to be curious, to know what happened, how it happened, when it happened and how all these memories will reflect the way your child will come into the world. Let's talk now about those moments when the magic hour does not happen, that is, when the child is taken from the mother, when there is that separation from the mother, that emotional shock, when he simply comes out of the environment where he stayed for nine months and is taken and cries, screams, all babies scream and cry. And that is the shock for which they scream and cry. Because if he landed in his mother's arms, he would calm down in two minutes at most. Separation from the mother is the most violent and threatening form of rupture, perceived as major trauma by any newborn. When you take a child from his mother and he does not get to understand that coming into the world is not a mistake or a trauma and not a threatening violence. Because our child, when he is born, is subjected to many standard traumatizing and violent procedures. It is incredible how we still propagate this. And no matter how many doctors or people have talked about the violence at birth, it seems we still do not understand that we are violent with our own children. Children are still, uh, taken out, as you see in this image, children are still spanked to make them cry or, they are still turned upside down and slapped to make them cry. What kind of welcome is that? You would never do such a thing to your newborn. Have you ever seen an animal torture its baby after it is born? No. We are the only species that tortures its children after birth, because that is how we got used to it, because those are the procedures. It is incredible. And then we wonder why there is so much violence in this world. So the major trauma we all carry within us is the violent separation from the mother. And this separation is the most threatening form of rupture. Why? Because the child has no chance of survival without the mother. And he knows this and experiences fear and terror. And fear of death is what he experiences at birth. Because he knows he will not survive without his mother. Good. Do you see how the baby holds his hands and feet? How he stayed in the womb with his arms crossed, legs to his chest, chin to his chest. Yes, that is how he is born. That is how he stays for nine months. When you take him out, he feels like he is falling into the void, correct. Have you ever dreamed that you fell into the void? Mhm. Have you ever fallen into the void and, as they say, survived? No. Then where does that feeling of falling into the void in your dream come from, if you have never consciously experienced it? Well, it is from birth. All of us who were born this way and were taken and held like this, without anyone holding our hands so we would not have that feeling of infinite vastness where you get lost and have no boundary to protect you. And you fall into the void because someone is just holding you, without supporting your hands and feet. That is what it is about. About this falling reflex, which is called, of course, after someone. It is called the Moro reflex, but it is a terrible reflex, which we acquired at birth because of this. And yes, you have it. It is proof that it exists. Proof that you dream you are falling into the void and in fact, you have never done it in your life, but it was just the feeling from birth. And here the body keeps it

A mind to dream of. Being torn from the womb, meaning from the home of nine months of safety, represents the most brutal form of separation for any human being. Please look at this image and tell me if you think it is normal how this child is being held? And if you see him swimming with his little hands in the air, thinking he will fall into an immense void, because until then he had protection. So this is what it’s about, about inhumane procedures. I won’t even mention children who haven’t seen their mothers for days because of some absurd procedures in certain maternity wards. So, this separation, as the most brutal form of abandonment, will leave very deep marks on any human being. Have you ever been in a toxic relationship? Have you ever been afraid to leave your partner, even though you knew they didn’t treat you well, didn’t respect you, didn’t love you? For... many reasons. How long did you stay and suffer and say it’s better to just leave it? Yes, why do we stay in toxic relationships when we know those people don’t want what’s best for us or we’re not happy in those toxic relationships? I speak from experience, as I too have stayed in toxic relationships. Or how quickly do you leave? Do you leave first so you won’t be left? Do you leave first so you won’t be abandoned? All these mechanisms are defense mechanisms we learned precisely in those moments when we were abandoned. When? After birth. The child believes his mother abandoned him. He will never understand why his mother doesn’t fight for him, why his mother disappears, and most mothers don’t even know it’s their job not to disappear, not to give the child away, not to allow others to take him or keep him two days away from her, because it makes no sense to a child.

The second emotional shock. This child is placed on a scale. Yes? Again, his little hands are in that falling position, as if into a fantastic void, because he has never been unprotected, yes, from the womb. So, what an unwelcoming and cold world! That’s exactly what the child feels. Without love, without chances of survival. Without his mother. Why is the mother his chance of survival? When the child is born, he is wet from the amniotic fluid in the mother’s womb, and the first sensation he will experience is cold. No matter how warm the room is where he is born, but usually it’s not very warm in a delivery room, because doctors don’t take the mother’s wishes into account, because the mother doesn’t matter in most such moments, unfortunately, even though she should be queen there, the child feels the sensation of cold, of chill, of being unwelcome. Yes, these are his first impressions. I wonder if we wouldn’t all ask ourselves if we landed on the wrong planet when we were born? Because I don’t think any of us expected to be received so poorly. For example, I didn’t see my mother for two or three days. I probably thought I had killed her, yes, at birth, because she suffered and indeed almost died at birth. So, imagine what my subconscious mind thinks and what imprint it received. For me, birth equaled death. That’s why my first birth was also a very difficult one. And yes, sister to death. Ironically, right? So, let’s see how our mothers experienced birth, so we can see how we move forward. Because this limbic imprint repeats, unfortunately, but it repeats until you realize and become aware, and verbalize, and think, and find associations. All these things are very important. That’s why I recommend you prepare emotionally for birth.

Now, let’s recap a bit the deeply disturbing and traumatizing things for any newborn. So, there are no exceptions. There is no such thing as “oh, my baby didn’t cry at birth, so I can conclude he didn’t suffer.” All babies suffer, but they probably manifest it differently, because we are different, yes, and it also depends a lot on how we were already imprinted from the mother’s womb. So, separation from the mother with its negative consequences is: a lifelong imprint that all changes are very unpleasant and bring loneliness and abandonment, the fact that we end up in an unknown and frightening environment will always make us think that, when something changes, as birth was, the environment is unknown and frightening. That’s why we fear change. Yes, so the fear of change comes from there, from that first impression of an unknown and frightening environment.

After that, when the child is born, he is not capable of producing body heat. Why? Because he spent nine months in amniotic fluid in the mother’s womb, which was constantly heated to thirty-seven degrees Celsius. So he didn’t have to use energy to produce that body heat to keep the amniotic fluid at thirty-seven degrees. When he is born, on top of it being cold here, he doesn’t know how to maintain his body heat. Let’s look at the example of the hen and chicks or the brooding hen and chicks. What does the hen do after the chicks hatch? She keeps them and warms them. What does the kangaroo, a mammal, do after giving birth? She keeps the baby in her pouch and warms it. What does any kitten, puppy, whatever you want, do after birth? The mother keeps it close and warms it. So, what does any mother do with her baby? She doesn’t let go and warms it. How? Skin to skin.

So, if the child doesn’t have this innate ability to produce body heat, at least in the first week of life he doesn’t know how to do this, he will need to stay skin to skin with the mother, not dressed in a ski suit, in a crib, because he will die of cold. Because that ski suit doesn’t warm itself. And yes, we don’t need devices to warm the child. Because the child doesn’t need devices. The child needs his mother to warm him, or his father to warm him. Because you’ll say: “Well, what if I’m not able to hold my child in my arms?” You have a partner or a doula, or someone to hold your child in their arms and to bond, meaning for the child to attach to a living person. It matters so much! Yes? After that, the sensation of falling, the Moro reflex. Exactly. What could I do so the child no longer feels like he’s falling? When I pick him up, I don’t just hold his head, because we know we have to support his bottom too, but I also hold his head and with one hand I put my hand on his little hands, so he no longer has that sensation of swimming in the air and falling. Very simple.

After that, what else does the child find traumatizing? Well, wiping off the vernix. I’ll show you immediately what vernix is. Vernix is that protective cream that for nine months was on the baby’s skin, precisely so he wouldn’t get pickled, like in brine. Because for nine months the child stays in warm fluid. So that vernix after birth is a very viscous cream, like a sunscreen with high protection. I don’t recommend them, but anyway, just so you have an idea of how viscous that substance is. When someone wants to wipe the child, to make him, I don’t know, commercial probably, they have to take a very abrasive cloth to literally scrape that cream off him and make him clean. It’s a trauma. It’s... The child learns: “Mom, what are they doing to me? They’re torturing me!” Think about it, for nine months no one touched him and now suddenly someone comes with an abrasive cloth to remove something that sticks very hard to his skin and which, by the way, is reabsorbed, yes, in a few hours, so it doesn’t need to be wiped off.

Yes, that’s why, for example, there are maternity wards, for example in England or in more, let’s say, knowledgeable countries, where the baby is not washed in the first forty-eight hours after birth. Not because those people are unwashed, but simply because they take into account the microbiome in the breastfeeding course. I will tell you about the microbiome and the importance of this microbiome and why the child and the child’s skin must be colonized with the mother’s bacteria from her skin and not with hospital bacteria. Yes? Because if we wash him, colonization will happen with what? With what’s around. Hospital? We have a hospital. That’s why we go home with streptococci, brontosaurs, and other things on the child’s skin. And yes, that colonization doesn’t happen and the microbiome isn’t transmitted. That’s why, oh, there are so many things you need to know, so please watch and learn and take notes, so you don’t make mistakes out of ignorance or lack of knowledge. Because yes, no one teaches us these things. I learned them myself, the hard way, I learned them from books, I learned them from courses, so I’m giving you everything, just start using them.

Good. What else does the newborn find traumatizing? Even unfriendly, foreign hands, even cold instruments, which, honestly, would make an adult run away if someone came and put that thing on you to listen to your breathing. Unfriendly hands... Why? Because, if we look at how a baby is washed by a nurse, it’s as if she’s washing dishes. Because, well, that’s her job. But your child doesn’t come as a plate. He comes... your child. He doesn’t want to be washed like a potato. He wants to be loved, to be respected, to be caressed and not scrubbed with, I don’t know what soap to... To what? To make him clean? When we know how important this colonization with beneficial bacteria is.

The lack of proximity to a source of life, meaning the mother. When the child is taken and placed in a crib, everything becomes immobile. From a mother who, when she breathed, rocked her child in the womb, now the child ends up in a box, suffers from cold, screams, yells, his mouth is filled with a bottle of formula, he doesn’t see his mother because he’s not brought to her. The mother doesn’t ask for him because she doesn’t know or if she does, she’s not given the child. So there are so many anomalies that I’m not even surprised we are so... Buh, so sick and traumatized, yes?

And one more very important thing, which the child perceives as a trauma, is the sensation of cold and chill when the child is born wet, because we are all born wet, because we live in fluid during the nine months of pregnancy. The third emotional shock: Why is this being done to me? All children scream and not just scream. They literally yell because they want their mother. Here’s a perfect image, the mother sitting worried, with empty arms. And it would be natural and normal for her to want to hold her child in her arms. But the child is taken elsewhere, needs to be washed, needs to... While he’s screaming, right? He will calm down only when someone plugs his mouth, because until then there’s no way he can calm down, because calm is only in the mother’s arms.

What do they want to do to him? Well... Here’s an extraordinarily traumatizing procedure, which is usually standard in most maternity wards, especially since parents don’t know, even if the child is already fine and is okay and breathing, he is still taken to the neonatology ward, sometimes with the father who smiles foolishly, excuse me, and watches as his child is tortured and as the child flails his arms and legs and screams as if being cut, because a tube is inserted into his mouth, down the esophagus to the stomach, to extract pulp. I don’t know, some gastric fluid. Because, the child is fine, he doesn’t need this. Plus, that’s the tube for this part. But there’s also a little tube that measures the permeability of the anus. I almost fainted when I heard about this procedure happening. By the way, not somewhere in the countryside, in some forgotten maternity, but in the capital of Romania, in Bucharest, in a private clinic where you pay a lot of money, and there’s a doctor who takes special pleasure in doing and testing the permeability of the anus, sticking a tube as deep as possible into the child’s bottom to see if it’s permeable or not. I don’t know, I ask you. Would you like that? I don’t think so. Just as if you go for a gastroendoscopy, they might suggest anesthetizing you before sticking the tube down your throat to your stomach. But why torture the child? Why do this to him? Why try to imprint? Why not even try? They succeed in imprinting these tortures as “We’re so happy you’ve arrived, our child! Let’s see how much you can withstand our idiotic procedures.” I have a big problem with them, because 95% of them are totally wrong and totally pointless and have no medical value. I’m not talking about a child who needs to be saved, because maybe by a big mistake he swallowed amniotic fluid, not that he swallowed it into his stomach, because it’s normal to swallow it into his stomach, but he inhaled it and got it into his lungs and isn’t breathing and needs resuscitation. I don’t deny that. Then it’s okay. But when you do these procedures as standard to all children who are actually fine, it’s as if you’re training them to become violent, because you greet them with violence. They will believe that’s what their peers should do. And yes, at some point in life they will do all sorts of things. Either they will remain traumatized, or they will traumatize others in turn, to be able to vent. It’s a very simple mechanism. But I don’t understand how we can stand by and watch as this continues to happen.

The fifth emotional shock. A newborn, screaming in despair, will not be soothed, but only have his mouth plugged with a bottle of formula. This is the standard procedure. The only one. Plus, he doesn’t just get formula to keep quiet, because you can’t live, psychologically speaking, as medical staff in a neonatology ward where twenty children are crying. They are also given phenobarbital, to keep things quiet. So you, as a mother, every time your child is brought to the ward, where you’ve been waiting for three days for him to be brought to you, your child is always sleeping. Your child is always calm. Your child is never hungry. Why? Because if you put him to the breast, if he’s full of formula, because they give him much more formula than his little stomach can handle. To understand, the first meal given to a newborn, when his stomach has the volume of a cherry, about five milliliters, meaning a level teaspoon, they give him ten milliliters. So that child is overloaded, overfed. That’s why he regurgitates. So you put him to the breast for nothing, thinking, wow, he’ll get colostrum and colonize his intestinal tract with colostrum, which has fantastic properties, which actually creates the microbiome to prepare digestion. Nonsense! Nothing. The child doesn’t want it because he’s full, because he already has chemicals in him and because he will always be brought when he’s, when he’s asleep, not when he’s crying and awake, when he’s crying and awake they give him another bottle of formula. When he’s calm, they bring him to you. Well, and you say wow, what a calm child I have! And as soon as you get home, two or three days after birth, the child starts screaming because what? Look, he’s no longer sedated. And yes, don’t believe me, no problem. I see I’ve gotten fired up again. When I talk about these subjects, they really upset me. Don’t believe me. I have an article on my blog where a nurse who works in Romania at a state hospital, at a state maternity, tells about all these things. And there, she sent me the article to publish, because she published it anonymously, so she wouldn’t lose her job. There she clearly explains how all the children are sedated to keep things quiet, because otherwise you go crazy. And what does she say? She won’t be able to change the system. Anyway, she was ostracized. But what does she say? Don’t let your child out of your hands. The child isn’t going anywhere. In fact, you know this? Do it! Don’t let your child go anywhere. Don’t let your child be stuffed with formula. No one can calm him better than you, as a mother. The rest are stories, nonsense. Exactly what I was saying before. The baby will only see his mother after he has fallen asleep, exhausted from crying, stuffed with formula and sometimes phenobarbital. Sometimes it even appears on the discharge sheet, those who still have the courage to write it. So zero contact with her, at least in the first days after birth. And please look at this picture. This woman has just given birth about 6 hours ago and is seeing her child for the first time. The child slept with his mouth open from the bottle and is sleeping. The child doesn’t see his mother. The mother looks at the child and says yes, he’s cute, but she no longer has those hormones that were lost in the first moments after birth, when they were separated.

What does the child actually want? To have arrived like this, skin to skin, to be able to smell her, hear her, taste her, because he will go to the breast, will do that crawl to the breast and be warmed by his own mother. So, this is what should happen, not what actually happens. My place is on my mother. She is the only one I know from the inside and now from the outside. And I want you to look at this picture now, because I need you to imprint in your mind that your baby, when born, will be purple. That is, he doesn’t have the same color as you. That purple is a, let’s say, temporary color, which is a skin coloration in the first two or three minutes. At a water birth, these two or three minutes are a bit delayed, so you wait longer until the skin turns pink. So all those who have heard: “Oh, dear! You almost died at birth. Why? Because you were blue!” No one died. No one dies from this blueness, because all babies are blue when they are born. It’s not from birth trauma or because he passed through the narrow vaginal canal. No. It’s from the transition from an intrauterine aquatic environment to an environment where breathing changes, the stomach is activated, the liver is activated, everything changes. He no longer receives oxygen mainly through the cord, but will have, let’s say, the first breath through the lungs, the lungs are activated. That’s why the skin color of all newborns in the first two minutes is purple, then it returns to normal. So you no longer have to think your child suffered something and it’s not normal to be purple.

My place is with my parents. I want to see them happy and joyful that I have arrived. Here’s a picture that even won the award for the most beautiful birth photo, in which, by the way, all the protagonists are crying. And speaking of a baby being born, only his parents can calm him. He knows no one else in this world. So, here, these are his father’s hands, who will place him on his mother’s chest. And the child, from that, let’s say, fright, because it’s said that when they take their first breath, it’s not easy. It seems it’s an effort to do this and it’s also a bit of a scare that suddenly (again, a gulp of air) you breathe, yes, and you no longer receive, let’s say, only oxygen through the umbilical cord. By the way, oxygen from the umbilical cord still comes and oxygenates the brain, so the child has enough time to get used to breathing through the lungs. So, birth is a miracle, an immense joy and a reason to celebrate. The woman should not suffer at birth, as long as the birth was not whipped, forced, induced and, yes, somehow everything was artificial. The woman can give birth to her child. The child is happy when he reaches his mother’s arms, calms down instantly. So you don’t need a bottle, formula, phenobarbital, nurses. Hold your child in your arms.

My place is at my mother’s chest. From there... Your baby can be measured and checked in her arms. There is no need for him to go anywhere because these things can happen right there. There, his heartbeat can be listened to, his lungs and how he breathes can be listened to. Everything happens there—this happens at a hospital where the woman is truly respected and she goes with a birth plan. And as long as the child has no problem, there is no reason for him to be separated from his own mother. My place is at my mother’s chest. I know, I repeat it a thousand times. Please let the cord pulse, because placental blood transfer is still happening. And in the course about centuries we will talk about the umbilical cord and how to know and check if it still has pulsation or not. Here you can also see, where it’s blue, that there is still blood being transferred from the placenta into the child’s body. Because after birth, for twenty, twenty-five minutes, the cord pulses. It pulses because about 150 milliliters of blood, which was in the placenta until now with stem cells, is transferred into the child. Exactly the stem cells that were in the placenta during pregnancy. Now, after birth, they will be transferred into the child’s body. Well, that’s where they need to go. Yes. Not everyone wants the child’s stem cells to reach the child’s body. Theoretically, yes. Practically, I have a special course about stem cells that, look, no longer reach the child’s body, but a bank, after which, as they say, nobody pays you for giving away the stem cells, but everyone pays to take the child’s stem cells, so they don’t reach the child and end up in a bank. And when you need those stem cells, you’ll pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to have them put into the child’s body. If you find a doctor who knows how to do that. Doesn’t that seem absurd? I mean, I collect the stem cells, pay, put them in a bank, pay to take them out to put them in, and in fact, I could just let them come into the child’s body by letting the cord pulse. Yes, it’s an interesting subject.

And as I said, only the mother can warm me. Well, the father can warm you too. Speaking of that, with the mother, warming the baby is done skin to skin. With the father, it’s usually skin to hair. That’s a joke I sometimes use. Speaking of that, dear men, those of you who have chest hair, please don’t shave it before birth, because you’ll scratch your baby, and the baby loves to be kept warm with that hair, so it’ll be with the father. Not skin to skin, but skin to hair, and you’ll keep your baby warm. So don’t forget that the baby, in the first week of life at least, doesn’t know how to produce body heat. So leave the vernix alone. Don’t remove it here. I’ll show you now with the mouse. These thicker spots are vernix, part of that viscous cream, the protective layer, which will be reabsorbed in a few hours anyway. And here you can see the vernix better, especially in this area and above and even on the mother’s bra. This vernix will be reabsorbed, and the baby, when born, here you can see again the purple color, which is very different from the mother’s skin color, and the baby who reaches the mother’s chest calms down instantly because he recognizes his mother from the outside. The mother is my world, my safety. She is everything to me. At her chest, the child recovers after the intensity of birth. That unknown journey he took together with his mother. Why? Because birth is a dance between mother and baby, a hormonal dance in which both somehow collaborate. This is my magic hour with my mother, which, by the way, doesn’t last an hour. It certainly doesn’t last three minutes, because many hospitals, lately, have realized you have demands and will say, “But how could we not? We, a state hospital. Oh, but we offer the magic hour.” Yes, yes, I know. And when you ask them or when you make the mistake of not asking and you find out you’ve given birth? And the magic hour lasted three minutes by the clock or less? Then you know you’ve been fooled. The magic hour with the mother doesn’t last three minutes, nor five, nor half an hour. The child doesn’t go anywhere in the first two hours of life after birth. That’s the magic hour. Until he falls asleep at the mother’s chest, after being fed, because the first breastfeeding will take place at most 30 minutes after birth. So it’s not just an hour, but the two, two-three hours in which I get used to my new existence in my mother’s arms. And by the way, what better thing does a child have to do than to stay in his mother’s arms? Nothing. Does he need to go somewhere? No. Does something need to be done to him? No. All that can be done is you look at the child, see him, measure him with your eyes. If someone wants to come listen to his lungs, they can come, they don’t have to take him. The child doesn’t have to do anything in the first two-three hours of life, just get used to and know that his mother is here. Look, squinting, as you can see in this image. These are the hours I will remember all my life. These are the emotions I experience in those hours that I will remember all my life. These will become and turn into my unconscious memories, which will be part of me all my life and will make me behave a certain way all my life.

So, in the first two-three hours after birth, the child does not leave the mother’s arms, period. For nothing. Everything else can happen afterwards. I mean, what needs to happen after those two-three hours? Well, I don’t know, maybe you want to weigh him. Maybe you want to measure him, see how long he is. OK, fine. Do it afterwards, because he won’t shrink, he won’t lose weight, he won’t lose anything. In fact, if you leave him attached to the umbilical cord, he’ll even gain 150 grams of blood, because he’ll gain weight. Children who lose weight at birth lose it because they aren’t given that placental blood and they are born with fantastic anemia. So to lose 150 ml, I’ll explain very clearly in the lessons about the umbilical cord and placental blood, is the equivalent of almost a liter for an adult. When an adult loses a liter of blood, well, he can’t get out of bed, he faints directly. He’s good for transfusions. But why do we do this to children? Because that’s the procedure. A non-medical and wrong procedure. But yes, that’s how it is.

And now the child, in the first half hour, is perfectly prepared for the first encounter with the mother’s milk. From there comes his love, nourishment, and health. Why? When you breastfeed, you don’t just feed the child. OK, you feed him too. From there comes emotion too, because your milk is imprinted with your maternal emotions. And not only emotions come through your maternal milk, but also antibodies that strengthen the baby and build his immune system. Because the baby is born without this immune system, and the immune system is acquired through breastfeeding. That’s why, in the first two years after birth, the woman must breastfeed her child. I will talk to you about breastfeeding in the chapter on breastfeeding and, please, it is the most important action you will ever take for your child in terms of health. Breastfeed for at least two years so you can say that yes, indeed, you gave your child all the options to survive in this interesting world he has come into. The encounter with milk is not just a meeting with milk, but also a meeting with bliss, because the child learns to adapt to this new world.

That’s about it for the magic hour. I hope you understood how important the magic hour is for your baby and not just for him, but for you as well. See you at the next course. Have a wonderful day!