Hello, my dear! I am glad to see you again at this course about jaundice. Today I want to talk to you about the cases in which jaundice appears after birth, jaundice in babies. I will show you the allopathic medical perspective on jaundice, meaning what doctors believe nowadays. We will discuss the newborn’s liver, the emotional causes of jaundice, the biology of human blood, red blood cells and their massive breakdown after birth, what bilirubin is, what anemia is, and why the skin turns yellow in jaundice. I will also show you the five degrees of jaundice that a child can develop, how bilirubin is eliminated from the body, and in this course I will also talk about breastfeeding and the importance of lactation in treating jaundice, about colostrum and its role in eliminating bilirubin. I will discuss the breastfeeding schedule in the context of jaundice, non-invasive tests, what they do—and what UV lamp treatment, phototherapy, which is usually highly recommended, will do. We will also talk about invasive and traumatic tests, extreme and dangerous allopathic treatments. And I will tell you about the natural and effective way to reduce bilirubin in the body. How to manage excessive sleepiness in a baby with jaundice and methods for resolving emotional conflicts. This is quite a long but very important course that I would like to present to you today, and I ask you to take notes, because there are many things you might forget, as they are from the medical field, and you might need to search a lot in studies to find out these things that I am now giving you in bullet points. So let’s talk about neonatal jaundice or jaundice in the newborn. Here, in the picture, you can actually see that the baby’s face compared to the hand is very yellow. This is how a baby with jaundice looks, and jaundice appears predominantly in medicalized births, meaning in ninety-five percent of medicalized births. The child develops this jaundice after birth. Jaundice is an orange or yellowish coloring of the newborn’s skin starting from the second or third day after birth. Although allopathic medicine claims it is a physiological process, it cannot be called that, because it does not appear in all newborns, so there is nothing physiological about it. It is not normal for a child to have jaundice. That’s why I will explain to you what the signs are, how you can prevent jaundice, and how you can resolve it if it appears in your child. And now we will talk about conventional and allopathic medicine, meaning what you will certainly hear from at least one doctor at the maternity ward. Allopathic medicine treats the human body like a machine. Yes, unfortunately, at the car service you might get more treatments for your car than you do for your body in this hospital, in all hospitals that practice allopathic medicine. What does allopathic medicine say? It assumes that the brand-new liver of some babies, so only some babies, does not efficiently eliminate bilirubin from the bloodstream. So only some cannot eliminate bilirubin from the liver. Of course, as usual, allopathic medicine does not ask at all whether the brand-new liver of this newborn might be overloaded or intoxicated by so many anesthetics and medications that could be from birth, labor, or pregnancy, if there was an excess of medication. So allopathic medicine usually gives diagnoses, but does not ask what the cause is for some not being able to eliminate that excess bilirubin from the liver. Conventional medicine, of course, does not accept that the liver is connected to conflicts of anger and frustration. So, usually, a newborn who develops jaundice may have a cause of anger and frustration on an active emotional background, and because of this develops jaundice. Here you can clearly see in the picture how the baby even has yellowish eyes, not just yellow-orange skin. The emotional causes of jaundice in the newborn are intrauterine territorial conflicts, meaning everything that happened in the womb and everything that made the baby feel invaded. How can a baby feel invaded in the mother’s womb? Very simply. Through excessive disturbance from too many ultrasounds. And yes, please watch the lessons about ultrasounds, there are about four or five and they are very important, so you understand why this disturbance is perceived by the child and is very threatening for the child to be disturbed and bothered with these ultrasounds. There are also intrauterine territorial conflicts from the child’s frustration because the parents probably want a different sex than the one the child actually has. So, when we want a girl and a boy comes, or vice versa, the child can develop jaundice. This is an emotional cause that facilitates jaundice. It does not mean it is the only thing we can blame for the appearance of jaundice. I am just telling you about these intrauterine territorial conflicts and about territorial conflicts at birth. The greatest upset for a baby after birth is the brutal separation from the mother and the way the baby is handled after birth. So, again, a territorial conflict: instead of landing on the mother’s chest, the baby is taken away, so the baby has every reason to be frustrated and to have that separation and territory-related conflict, right? So these are the emotional causes that can trigger jaundice in a baby. So, when analyzing why, we must take into account both emotional and physical causes, for example, when a woman chooses anesthesia, of course the baby’s liver will suffer, because it is brand new and cannot yet handle so many toxins to eliminate. Conventional medicine assumes that the newborn’s brand-new liver cannot cope. Period. But still, it has no explanation for why not all children develop jaundice after birth. So, clear picture: baby, jaundice, yellowish eyes, the whites of the eyes are yellowish, and the skin is again orange-yellow. And now there are also emotional causes of jaundice in the baby, related to territorial conflicts taken over from the mother. If the mother is stressed and can be upset during labor, for various reasons, because she is not understood, not listened to, her requests are not fulfilled, let’s say, those she may have mentioned in the birth plan. Many things can happen in which a woman, especially during labor, hypersensitive, can feel misunderstood and become frustrated, upset, and stressed about this. A difficult birth can also be a cause of jaundice. Feelings of guilt or shame experienced by the mother during birth are taken over by the child. So, note all these things because it is important to know what to avoid. That is, you need to be in a place where you feel very good, where no one stresses you, no one frustrates you, because all these things will have effects on your emotional state and on the baby’s psyche, which is like a sponge. The baby literally absorbs all your states that you will experience at birth. And now let’s see what human blood is made of. Fifty-five percent of human blood is plasma. And plasma is composed of ninety-two percent water and fats and vitamins, eight percent glucose, hormones, proteins, minerals, salts. The remaining forty-five percent are red blood cells or hemoglobins, white blood cells, leukocytes, that is one percent, and platelets. During pregnancy, the baby’s red blood cells transport the oxygen received from the mother’s bloodstream throughout the body. Why do you need to know all this? So you can understand what I am about to tell you. So fifty-five percent of our blood is plasma and forty-five percent is red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Good, let’s see how a newborn develops jaundice immediately after birth. What normally happens? Red blood cells die at the end of their lifespan and are broken down into several things, including waste products, that is, bilirubin, this yellow thing, that’s why it is yellow, yes, it is a yellow pigment. And this bilirubin is not water-soluble. This bilirubin will be processed by the liver so it can become water-soluble. This transformation of bilirubin by the liver into something water-soluble will be eliminated from the child’s body through stool. It is excreted. Good. What happens when the child has jaundice? Red blood cells die because they are at the end of their life. Because of this, bilirubin is secreted. But because the newborn’s liver, just as I told you before, is not mature, it processes this bilirubin very slowly and therefore cannot transform this bilirubin to make it water-soluble except in a slower way. And then all this unprocessed bilirubin accumulates somewhere in the body, accumulates in the skin and colors the whites of the eyes yellow. This is to help you understand a bit about bilirubin and the jaundice that appears so frequently that (laughs) it is already considered normal. Which is not correct, because jaundice should not be normal at birth. So bilirubin changes the color of the newborn. Here we have normal blood and blood with anemia. Yes? If you look at your hand, it should have a normal color and not be yellowish or orange. Allopathic medicine, to return to allopathic medicine, claims that after birth, hemoglobin splits into heme and globin, which creates bilirubin that accumulates in the liver and bile. Bilirubin contains a yellow pigment, just as I showed before, which changes the skin color from pinkish to orange to yellowish. The skin color changes gradually from head to toe, which is why the first sign is always the baby’s head. As it improves, the normal color will return in reverse, from feet to head and eyes. So now you know how jaundice evolves. So first the head and eyes will turn yellow, then, if there is more unprocessed bilirubin, it will be seen in the extremities from head to toe. If the feet are also yellowish, it means the jaundice is quite severe. Good, and now, just as I was telling you, jaundice by degrees. Yes, we have degree one, two, three, four, five. At degree one, the baby’s face and eyes are colored. At degree two, the baby’s skin turns yellow-orange and the belly, besides the head. At degree three, the shoulders, thighs, and bottom start to color. At degree four, only the fingers, palms, and soles are normal, and at degree five the child is completely yellow. This is so you know how severe the jaundice is and not to subject your child to too many tests, because this test can be done by eye. If the child is just a little yellow in the face, it’s degree one. If the belly also starts to turn yellow, it’s degree two. Degree three, degree four, degree five. Now you understand. And now, for bilirubin to leave the newborn’s body, it needs to be removed from the liver and bile to reach the stool and urine. In about two weeks, the bilirubin in the blood will be eliminated without additional interventions. So everything is in the bile and liver. Here we have the bile and the liver. So the liver must remove this unconjugated bilirubin into the small intestine, which will then be eliminated through feces. Good, and now let’s see how bilirubin is removed from the liver and bile. Simply, through breastfeeding, breastfeeding, breastfeeding. You have three options. Breastfeed. (creaking sound) And then the child will eliminate the jaundice. So there is no need to put the child under a lamp, just breastfeed the child as often as possible, even every hour, because breastfeeding lowers the level of bilirubin. The more often the baby poops and pees, the faster bilirubin leaves the body. How can the child poop and pee if he doesn’t eat and doesn’t get formula faster? The best is with breast milk. So, for the baby to pee and poop as often as possible, you need to breastfeed even every hour, especially when the baby has jaundice. Otherwise, there is no breastfeeding schedule. So mother’s milk is gold. Especially the first milk. Here you can also see a breast areola from which a drop of milk is coming out, the first milk that comes right after birth, called colostrum, and it is yellow. This yellow colostrum can be seen here, it is not white as we know milk to be. It contains a laxative that helps eliminate meconium, the first poop, and I will explain immediately, and to wash out bilirubin through frequent defecation. So meconium is not poop from what the child has metabolized or eaten. Meconium is that paste from the child’s large intestine, which forms throughout pregnancy and accumulates there. It is a paste that does not smell like poop and has nothing to do with what we consider feces, it simply is a paste that smells pungent. So it has nothing to do with poop, yes, with the smell of poop, and it is very sticky. It is black, greenish, or dark brown and you can barely wipe it with a wet wipe because it is very, very sticky. What does breastfeeding in the first 30 minutes after birth do? Well, it will eliminate that meconium, which for the first time the baby now eliminates. Because during pregnancy the baby does not poop. So that meconium is gathered for nine months and will be eliminated after the baby is put to the breast through colostrum, which actually contains a laxative that removes that paste from the child. So, the fact that the baby has pooped for the first time and it is that very sticky and pungent poop does not mean that breast milk has already passed through the liver circuit and so on, stomach, but frequent, successive breastfeeding is needed. But it is the first start, and colostrum is gold. You will see more about colostrum in the breastfeeding course. Colostrum contains the laxative that helps improve jaundice. So, as frequent as possible stimulation of the breasts through breastfeeding is the key to success. Why do I say stimulation? Because if you put the baby to the breast, the breast will signal the brain that there is a baby, needs to be fed, colostrum comes down, that is, that initial milk which is orange, which is gold, and then the baby will receive that colostrum. Breastfeeding in the first days of life is done even every hour, especially when there is, let’s say, suspicion that the baby might have jaundice. But breastfeeding is done especially every hour when the baby is born after a medicalized birth. Why? Because it is easier to wash toxins from the liver through successive breastfeeding than to do it dry, without other help. Colostrum can also be collected by manual expression, you do not need a pump. Let’s say you cannot put the baby to the breast, then the baby will be fed with a syringe or a spoon, not with a bottle, because it causes confusion. Please watch my breastfeeding course, because there I explain why the baby should not be confused with the bottle. Because the bottle is the number one enemy of breastfeeding. So put the baby to the breast as often as possible. If you can’t, because you don’t have the baby or so, collect the colostrum and definitely give it to the baby, because colostrum, and here we will talk about the microbiome, populates the intestinal tract and allows the baby to digest the breast milk that will come after the colostrum passes in the first two or three days. And now there are non-invasive tests by which, if you cannot see with the naked eye, there are some tests that, you see here, have different colors. And here you can tell how severe it is. One is not severe. Two, two is starting. So from two we have the five degrees. At two it’s degree one, three is degree two, four is degree three, five is degree four, and six is degree five, yes? It’s called a bilimeter. Yes? Every maternity has it or a Jaundice Meter. Yes, that’s what it’s called, Jaundice Meter, which is a device made by Konica Minolta, who used to make cameras to recognize, let’s say, skin color. So, big deal! It’s not a problem if you don’t have one. Anyway, it’s not a problem, because the natural option is to breastfeed the child a lot. How can you non-invasively test the newborn’s stool to check if the baby has jaundice? So, if you can’t tell (three-second pause) if the baby’s skin is colored or not, although it’s absolutely impossible not to notice, you can check the stool. But not the first stool, that is, not the elimination of meconium, but from the third day after birth. And please, take a picture. Normal stool is yellow. Uh, no, sorry. Normal stool is yellow, and the stool, let’s say, of a child with jaundice will be whitish. So exactly the opposite. The more yellow the baby, the whiter the stool. The more normal the baby, the more the stool will be mustard-greenish. So, newborn poop looks like this. And please, also watch the lessons about breastfeeding, because there I will show you more images of how poop should look and that it does not look like we expect in adults. Good. The Western medical world does not recommend exposing the newborn with mild forms of jaundice to UV light, because it recognizes that it resolves on its own after about two weeks. So, the child has two weeks to eliminate that bilirubin, so there is no need for the baby to be placed in that incubator or under that UV lamp. (three-second pause) So, I am not the one saying these things, medical studies say so. These are the medical websites that doctors study, theoretically, at least those abroad. Those in Romania do not really check international websites and maybe that’s why they don’t know that it is not necessary and not recommended to expose the baby to UV light. By the way, the baby’s eyes must be covered because the light is very harsh. And yes, you wouldn’t like to be kept under a blue light bulb either. The therapy for eliminating bilirubin proposed in every hospital in Romania is called phototherapy. It is said to manipulate the molecular structure of bilirubin so it can be excreted. Honestly, I cannot imagine how blue color on the baby’s skin helps the liver eliminate bilirubin. Yes, maybe it helps with skin color, but again, we are not solving the cause. We are only solving the symptom. So, it’s like going to the car service with the oil light blinking and no one changes your oil, but they fix the light so it doesn’t blink anymore. So, what are we talking about? We are not cutting the light now, we are not cutting the skin color, we want to get to the cause. That is, the liver needs help to eliminate bilirubin. Of course, this does not happen when you think in the allopathic medical system. Because phototherapy does not help the liver eliminate the toxins of an over-medicalized birth. The most invasive and traumatic form of testing for babies is taking blood from the baby’s foot or, I’ve even heard, from the head. I was shocked when I heard they take it from the foot or the head. As if it’s something absolutely normal. Please prick yourself in the sole or anywhere in the hand or head to take blood, to check something that can be seen with the naked eye, yes? So these, let’s say, treatments and, no, actually invasive tests are recommended, but again, here we enter other discussions, only if after two weeks the baby still has colored skin or if jaundice exceeds degree five. Degree five is when both the hands and feet are yellow. So until then, there is no need for the baby to be pricked or anything done. Until then, the child can metabolize that excess bilirubin on their own, but with patience. But yes, through breastfeeding, not necessarily with all sorts of tests and things. When the madness reaches its peak, so this can happen, they start replacing the blood with donated blood. Who has the courage to mix another DNA with their own child’s DNA? There are so many cases where these blood transfusions were with blood contaminated with HIV and other things, that I don’t even want to think about it. So, dear parents, be very careful, because you are not told what is being done, so do not give your child away. You can refuse phototherapy. Now you know what the normal values are, what the concerning values are, and anyway, nothing needs to be done in the first five, in the first three days of life, unless from the first, second, or third day, the child develops degree five jaundice, meaning both hands and feet turn yellow. Do not even consider this stupid idea of replacing the blood with donated blood. You cannot check what blood you are given. It could be blood from a child who, who knows how many vaccines they have had and how sick they are. So there is no need to do such a thing. That’s why I said that when madness reaches its peak, things like this happen. So the only and most effective natural remedy for improving jaundice is breastfeeding. Period. That’s all you need. Put the child to the breast as often as possible, wake them from sleep, because jaundice causes sleepiness, it is the best thing. And regarding sleepiness, the newborn’s sleepiness is due to an overloaded liver full of toxins that it has to metabolize. That is, if the woman was not anesthetized at birth. If she was anesthetized at birth, the child will be sleepy also because of the opioids that cause sleepiness. So, whenever the child starts to turn orange, they must be woken up every hour for rapid elimination of bilirubin. That’s why it is necessary to wake them, because otherwise they will sleep endlessly, and their liver will not be able to eliminate bilirubin as easily as if they were breastfed more often. And now, regarding emotional conflicts, territorial violation, frustration, anger, to resolve all these emotional conflicts your baby has gone through, and which may have been yours as well, talk as often as you can about the negative experiences and reassure your child that now they are safe with you and you are not leaving. Period. It is the simplest method, it is a therapy, if you follow my other courses you will see that this talking therapy is used and most mothers use it and it is effective, because the child and the child’s soul need to hear what you have to say, to calm down and not be afraid of being taken away from you again, frustrated and crying, and so on. These are the things about jaundice that I wanted to talk to you about today. Please, definitely follow the information about breastfeeding, the breastfeeding courses, because it is the most important action you can take after your child’s birth and the longest. Birth may last a few hours, but breastfeeding will last at least two years, if you want to give it, and your child will get the necessary antibodies to build a good immune system. So, I’ll see you at the next course. Thank you!