Hello, my dear, and welcome back to the breastfeeding course, where I will tell you about latching and the reasons why a baby might refuse the breast. Because it does happen. I will tell you about the most important milk with which, in fact, this breastfeeding journey begins. This milk is called colostrum. We will talk about the wonderful benefits of colostrum and why it is so important that the first feeding, after a sort of ultra all-inclusive nine months in which the baby never felt hunger because they were fed non-stop through the umbilical cord, is with colostrum. I will tell you about this first feeding, which is the most important for a good start to breastfeeding. We will talk about the moments and situations in which a baby might refuse the mother’s breast and why. It is only a temporary refusal, not a permanent one. And we will also talk about the myth that we have all heard, at least from other women, that at some point the milk turns into mere water and that there is no point in breastfeeding anymore.

Breastfeeding is, you should know, the most important transfer of health from mother to baby, because during this period you will transfer not only milk, but also antibodies, to build an immune system you can be proud of later, because after two years you can say your child is now ready for life. Colostrum is the first maternal milk. It is very precious, which is why it comes only in drops, not in liters or milliliters. Yes, you can collect milliliters, but it is very difficult, because every drop counts and is like gold. That is why it has a yellow-orange color. And one more thing: the fact that it comes in such small amounts does not mean there is a problem, it is simply that, physiologically, this is all the baby needs in the first days after birth. So, colostrum comes in small quantities, but it is enough for the baby’s needs in the first days after birth. The baby’s stomach, in the first two days after birth, can hold five milliliters of milk, just a few drops. To give you an idea, five milliliters is half a teaspoon. So, the baby will feed very often, because colostrum and breast milk are digested very quickly. So, prepare yourself for, let’s say, the first two months after birth, when you will be with your baby at the breast almost non-stop, because they will be feeding. And I want to ask you not to expect that the baby will feed for ten minutes and then sleep for half an hour.

They will feed non-stop, because very often the baby falls asleep at the breast out of comfort, love, safety, and security, because the best place is in the mother’s arms and at her breast. So, the baby falls asleep as if hypnotized by your milk and will wake up every time you try to put them down or take them off the breast. The idea is that yes, this is a period in which the attachment that developed over nine months continues and will be in your arms. So don’t have any illusions that you will be able to do many things in those first two months with your baby, because it won’t be like that. All you will need to do is stay with your baby, sleep with them. Indeed, in the first two months you might sleep on pillows, at a forty-five-degree angle, with the baby on your chest almost all the time. And when they sleep, you will doze off as well. And this is how you will get through this beautiful and unique period—it will never happen again in your life.

And I want to give you a piece of advice for when it will be hardest, when you have your baby next to you non-stop and you can’t even go to the bathroom, brush your teeth, or take a shower: remember these words, it doesn’t last long. That symbiosis between mother and child, which continues for at least two months after birth, will never return. So, savor the baby smell. Savor their softness and their need to snuggle and attach to you, because they will never again be so connected to you.

So, colostrum is the most important feeding in the first thirty minutes after birth. Why? Because this colostrum prepares the intestinal tract, which is brand new, for breastfeeding. Until birth, the baby is not fed and the stomach does not function. All the baby does in the womb is swallow amniotic fluid and eliminate it through urine. So, their kidneys work, but only filter that amniotic fluid. The rest of the nutrition is provided through the umbilical cord, which is connected to the placenta, and the placenta feeds the baby during pregnancy. So, from the moment of birth, the baby’s digestive system is activated. That is why the most important thing is for them to receive this colostrum, otherwise they may have significant digestive problems. Why? Because this colostrum will feed and activate those bacteria in the intestines that handle digestion and form the microbiome. I have a separate lesson on the microbiome. Please review that lesson if you don’t remember the importance of the microbiome.

So, colostrum is the most important meal in life. The most important, because thanks to this meal, your digestion will work well from the start. Otherwise, the bacteria that digest breast milk in the next two years of life will not form. That’s why it’s called liquid gold. It is a superfood, yes, for newborns. Why? Because this is where the immune system is built or begins to be built. It will help the baby not develop stomach diseases. It is a very important laxative for babies. Why? Because in the first two or three days, the baby will need to eliminate what has accumulated in the colon during pregnancy. There are no feces there yet, as there will be later when they start digesting milk and defecating. In the colon, during pregnancy, a kind of paste accumulates, which has a very strong smell and contains all sorts of particles filtered from the amniotic fluid the baby has swallowed. The baby does not poop during pregnancy. Therefore, this meconium will be, let’s say, the first stool or stools the baby will eliminate when they start ingesting milk and suckling at the breast.

So, colostrum contains those laxatives so the baby can eliminate this very sticky, black-greenish paste, and this defecation will occur in the first two or three days and is visible. It is very different from the stools that will follow once the baby starts drinking mother’s milk. I have made a special lesson, with pictures, so you can know what it looks like and what it should look like, so you don’t panic thinking your baby has diarrhea or other problems you might imagine.

Good. What else does colostrum contain? It contains a lot of proteins, minerals, fats, and vitamins for complete nutrition. It also helps recover, let’s say, lower glucose levels in the newborn. That’s why, when a baby is not put to the breast, of course their blood glucose levels, if someone analyzes them, will be quite low. And then, guess what? According to the tests, someone will come to give them glucose, but the glucose is in the colostrum you should be giving them. So, please, don’t let go of your baby. There is no need for blood tests, no need to prick your baby. Isn’t this the welcome to this world? Just put them to the breast. Because nature is so well made and so perfectly created that we really don’t need to come with corrections and adjustments, as if something isn’t working.

Colostrum also helps a lot with the elimination of unconjugated bilirubin in the liver, which leads to a decrease in potential jaundice on the second or third day. I have made a special lesson on this idea that all babies get jaundice—it’s not true. I will explain in that lesson why only certain babies get jaundice and how it can be easily eliminated. You should know that it’s also through breastfeeding. That’s just to wrap up the topic of jaundice. But please watch the video where I talk about this.

The baby can easily digest breast milk after being colonized with this colostrum, which effectively helps the intestinal tract digest, and it also contains many nutrients for the baby’s brain, eyes, and heart, so these can continue to grow, because until eighteen years old, the child is in a state of continuous growth. So, we only have benefits. Unfortunately, I have also met nurses working in maternity wards who say, “Don’t worry, you don’t have milk anyway, what’s coming out now is that yellow stuff and it’s no good.” Those women should be retrained because they clearly have no idea how important colostrum is, or they have become so used to stuffing babies with formula that, I don’t know, they’ve lost their minds. Excuse me, but I really don’t understand why you would deprive a mother of feeding her baby in the first thirty minutes after birth.

The first encounter with mother’s milk. From here, the baby learns that from now on, love and nourishment flow, and not just that, but their entire immune system. Babies are born almost sterile. That’s why the first meal you offer should be colostrum, because colostrum helps create the microbiome, which is then also supported by breast milk. It also comes from colonization with the mother’s vaginal bacteria. It also comes from colonization with bacteria from the mother’s skin, because that’s where the baby belongs, not in a well-scrubbed neonatology ward. All that layer of beneficial microbes and bacteria is washed away, and the baby will be colonized with hospital bacteria, which I don’t think you want, because there are many stories of babies leaving the maternity ward with streptococcus and other infections and prescribed antibiotics and many other things. So, my dear, colostrum is the most important meal. No one has the right to deprive you of this meal. And yes, even if they want to take your baby, please don’t give them up. Simply. There are women who manage to stand their ground even in hospitals where the golden hour is not practiced, so their baby is not taken away.

But, indeed, you need to have a lot of strength and determination. And yes, it would be good to have your husband by your side, because then the fight won’t be as hard, right? Because you, as a mother, when you give birth, you shouldn’t have to enter a battle, but should be focused only on your baby and not on what you need to do to keep them or prevent them from being taken away.

The first encounter with bliss. (clears throat) The baby learns to adapt to this new world, with a new way of feeding. And you should know I made a special video to help you understand why this meal is the most important and why it should never be confused with a bottle feeding. Because bottle feeding confuses the baby and creates the idea that from now on, food comes like this: with a bottle. That is, you press on a teat and the milk flows. Breastfeeding is not like that, breastfeeding is not about pressing on the breast and having milk squirt out.

Breastfeeding follows certain steps that I explain in the courses and which I ask you to follow, so you understand why there is a mechanism for milk production. Milk in women, in the human species, is not produced the way it is in cows, which we are used to seeing come from pasture with full udders, because they have been milked thousands of times and that happens mechanically. But when you have just given birth, you will not wake up with your breasts full of milk; you will need to put the baby to the breast so they can trigger the mechanism by which the milk comes down. It doesn’t come from nowhere, but it forms when the baby is put to the breast.

Because the breast recognizes a demand, that is, someone is asking for something by suckling. The brain receives the signal and releases hormones, prolactin and oxytocin, and after a few minutes you feel tingling in the breast area, which actually turns the mother’s plasma into milk. So, everyone has milk because we all have blood in circulation. So, my dear, you need to stimulate lactation for it to form. No matter how you give birth—whether it’s a spontaneous, vaginal, natural birth, emergency cesarean, elective cesarean, or any kind of cesarean—you will have milk, but you need to stimulate it. How? By putting the baby to the breast. That’s all. Nothing else needs to be done. There is no other recipe, because this is how women feed their children. Only most women don’t know they need to start this cycle of breastfeeding, and they end up discouraged from breastfeeding, so they don’t stimulate milk production.

And then they live with the impression that they didn’t have milk, there wasn’t enough milk, something happened, and because they didn’t give birth in a certain way, they didn’t have milk, right? All women have milk, but because of blockages that prevent those hormones from being released, some women simply cannot breastfeed, because they are very blocked. These blockages can be unconscious, most of the time, or conscious, if she doesn’t know how to start the breastfeeding mechanism.

So, you put the baby to the breast, let them suckle, latch them correctly, and this is very important. The first encounter with trust. Now the baby learns to know the mother on the outside. By the way, look at these little hands holding the breast. You should know that at some point the baby might start to massage,させてレ Booिफ. And now there are mo-ments, there are moments. Oh, brother, excuse me! There are moments when the baby might refuse the breast. The first moment when a woman is shocked because she has just received her baby and put them to the breast. It is the baby’s refusal to suckle at the breast because their first feeding was with a bottle. Look, the teat they took in their mouth, pressed, and then the formula came out. When they were taken to the neonatology ward immediately after birth, they were given a bottle instead of the mother’s breast. That’s why, please, choose hospitals where you are given the golden hour, where your birth plan is approved, where you have someone to talk to. Because so many things go wrong if these things don’t happen, that it’s not worth it, it’s not worth it because it’s free, it’s not worth it because it’s close by, it’s not worth it—Believe me, it’s better to travel hundreds of kilometers to find a hospital, a maternity ward where your birth plan is accepted, where you don’t have to fight the system, where you don’t have to make efforts, argue, or cause a scene to keep your baby, rather than ruin your beginnings and then have months of crying, struggle, and a rough start to breastfeeding.

So it’s not worth it. You know, people take out loans to buy all sorts of things for their homes. TVs, furniture, cars. Believe me, your peace of mind is worth taking out a loan, if necessary, to go to a civilized maternity where you will be treated like a queen and not like a thief trying to do something illegal. That’s how women are treated in most hospitals, and believe me, unfortunately, I know that maybe you have chosen a doctor or have a doctor you trust very much. And whom you have known for so many years and whom you think will do things for you. But believe me, if they work in a public hospital, they don’t make the rules there, they don’t set the protocols, they can’t change standard procedures. And yes, you will get the biggest disappointment of your life, thinking they will do something for you. Not because you’re not special—of course you are—but they simply can’t. So, rather than miss all these moments, not being allowed to move during labor, being tied by hands and feet. My dear, I still hear such stories. And they are not stories. They are the real stories of women who gave birth six months ago, three months ago, a year ago, two years ago, three years ago, in hospitals, and tell me why? Because they end up coming to my healing gatherings with depression, where for six weeks we do everything we can to get the woman out of the black hole she fell into three months, six months, a year, two years, three years ago.

So is it worth missing out on three years of the joy of watching your child grow just because it’s free at a public maternity? But you leave with scars that cost you not money, but your joy and happiness, and sometimes the joy and happiness of your child, and it costs you suffering. That’s what it costs, and that can’t be compared to any monetary cost. So I’m not advertising private maternities, but believe me, the money you could save by not doing seven thousand checkups because you don’t have a problematic pregnancy, you could save for a birth as you wish. And yes, I wish there were many more maternities that offer this, but unfortunately there are only a few. And yes, we have birth tourism, but believe me, it’s worth every dollar to go and give birth somewhere you will be treated like a human being. So, if the baby was first given a bottle, when they take the breast and see that milk doesn’t squirt out, they will say, okay, but I want that thing I had first.

Why? Because they have developed a reflex by which they believe that from now on, this is how they will be fed. That’s why, when you come home from the maternity, and your baby was taken and first fed with a bottle, it will be very difficult and you will need a lot of patience to wean your baby off the bottle and help them get used to what should have been natural, the breast. That’s why, please, insist that the first feeding is with the breast and not with a bottle. Why does the baby suddenly refuse the breast? You should know that there are babies who refuse the breast at some point because the mother is too emotionally overwhelmed, and the baby senses this through her milk. It’s incredible what you’re hearing now, I know, but you should know that all the fluids in our bodies are impregnated with what? With our emotions. How is this possible? Very simply, it is scientifically proven that our state influences even the proper functioning of our organs and physiology, that is, how the body manages to self-regenerate and function. All these things that happen in our bodies can be disturbed by pessimism, negative emotions, conflicts created in the mind because something is not working emotionally in our lives. So, my dear, please pay attention to these emotional conflicts, because the more stressed, worried, pessimistic, or depressed you are, the more likely your baby is to refuse milk, because emotionally, they cannot carry you in their arms.

It is far too much to ask, and it is not fair to ask your child to solve your emotional problems or conflicts that have arisen from a traumatic birth, from—They cannot handle it, because they are not emotionally equipped to handle our problems. That is why it is so important for you to be informed, because when you know what to do, you will be much calmer. And then your milk will be relaxed, just as you are. So I know it sounds strange, but if your baby ever refuses the breast, even repeatedly, please review and eliminate the emotional conflicts from your mind and psyche. Relax, take a break, maybe find a way to reset yourself and come back to your baby with love, because they are not refusing your breast because they don’t want your milk anymore, but because the milk is impregnated with too many emotional conflicts that they cannot manage. So yes, it is very important for you to enter this breastfeeding period balanced. It is very important to enter this stage balanced. So, if the baby refuses the breast, I repeat, it does not mean your milk is not good.

By the way, I want to tell you and assure you that what I am telling you is very correct. Breast milk never turns into water. Not after three days, not after a month, not after six months, not after a year, not after two, not even after six years if you were to breastfeed that long—your milk never turns into water. Why? Because your baby’s or child’s saliva, when they are still nursing, tells your brain exactly what is needed when the milk comes. There is this communication between mother and child, between child and mother. For example, if you have an older child, three or four years old, and they are still breastfeeding and maybe they catch a cold or get childhood diseases, which are okay, yes? Don’t be afraid of them, they are normal. They are separation illnesses from the mother.

So be more careful with your separations, make them gentler and more understanding. When they nurse, they will ask for antibodies for what they have, for their cold, for their chickenpox, rubella, or measles. So, the child always asks for what they need. A two-day-old baby will ask for milk for a two-day-old baby. A four-year-old child who is still nursing will ask for milk for a toddler, for a four-and-a-half-year-old child.

So, the milk never turns into water. This idea, which we also picked up, that after six months your milk is just a placebo, is not true. The milk is good, and as long as you breastfeed, you are not breastfeeding in vain, you are not breastfeeding for nothing, you are finalizing your child’s immune system.

So, the baby may refuse the breast because they have another need at that moment, maybe they need to stay close to you, because it can also be an emotional need. So, be patient, reconnect with them, and be persistent. Don’t give up, because breastfeeding is gold.

I explained in another video why... Wait, I wanted to say something, but I forgot. Ta-da! Oh, I remember now. I explained in another video the reasons why a baby cries, and you’ll see a top seven, because it wasn’t a top ten. You’ll know a top seven. And by the way, in that top seven, you should know that the baby does not cry because of colic, but very often for totally different reasons, and not from hunger. So please watch that video where I explain why the baby cries most of the time and the number one fear of mothers about colic. And oh my, how colic will be for babies is not justified, so please watch that video to understand your baby.

And if they refuse the breast, it may be that they cannot latch properly. And that’s because they have a restrictive frenulum. The restrictive frenulum is that string—not really a string, but that connection between their tongue and the base of the mouth, which is very, very tightly attached and does not allow the baby to stick out their tongue enough to suckle. Because the sucking mechanism is done with the tongue. If the tongue is not flexible and cannot come out because of that string holding it, that frenulum, then yes, surgical intervention is needed. And yes, talk to a lactation consultant, IBCLC, International Board of Lactation Consultants, and they will definitely recommend a surgeon who can perform this intervention quickly.

And yes, it is not entirely non-traumatic, but it is more important to resolve that restrictive frenulum than to let the baby struggle and not be able to feed, because this must be resolved quickly. So we cannot delay, because we cannot feed the baby.

So, check, if you don’t know, call a lactation consultant. Anyway, I recommend that before birth you get in touch with a lactation consultant who will become your consultant, whom you can call at any time (clears throat) when you need to make sure the latch is good, that there is no restrictive frenulum, that you are doing everything right so you don’t enter a period of stress, because periods of stress reduce your milk supply and that’s where the crises happen and that’s where the trouble begins.

Thank you, and I’ll see you at the next course.