(music) Hello, dear mother, and I am glad to see you today at this course about pregnancy tests and analyses. What are the blood tests for a woman, not only in Romania, but anywhere in the world? But I will speak more broadly about the tests for a pregnant woman in Romania and especially how there is an insistence on these tests, even though in other countries there is no sort of obligation for certain things that you must keep testing once you find out you are—or will become—a mother. I will go into details about what we test and why we test and analyze the fetus in the womb. We will talk about how ethical it is to put the future mother in front of very difficult choices, whether to keep or not keep a pregnancy, because a certain test, which has a very low probability of being accurate, shows something. We will talk a lot about the nocebo effect on the mother's psyche, because this effect, which destroys a woman's confidence, this nocebo effect, manipulates women into all sorts of things they wouldn't do if they weren't so manipulated. We will talk about analysis laboratories and the business behind these labs, which actually live off repeated tests. And to repeat a test is very simple—you will get a result that is not conclusive. We will also talk about pregnancy termination and the modern approach to women who have to choose whether to keep a pregnancy or not, depending on the results of some tests. We will also discuss very invasive and dangerous tests, genetic tests, ultrasound, and amniocentesis. I will also discuss false-positive results and the psychological impact on a mother of such a false-positive result. And how much this real industry with pregnant women in Romania costs. Yes, there are many things we will address in this course, so stay with me for the course about pregnancy tests and analyses. What is indicated, what is not necessarily needed? It is up to you to choose what you think you should do.

Let’s talk about the mother’s blood tests. First of all, blood tests are major producers of stress and emotional conflicts, most of the time, of course, unnecessary, as long as the mother does not want to abort the baby in her womb. It sounds harsh, doesn’t it? But I want to ask you, why do you do tests? Why do you go to analyze the gift you received, for which maybe, I don’t know, you prayed, you wanted so much? And suddenly we analyze, as they say, the gift we received, a kind of loan we received. These children come to us for a time, they are somehow loaned for a time, they will grow up next to us, we will give them the best we can along the way. And yet, we analyze them and decide whether to keep them or not. If that is the approach, then yes, there is indeed a justified reason to analyze and re-analyze your womb, so you can see if you want to keep the gift or not. But if you know from the start that this gift was given to you so you can live certain experiences and give it your best, and the idea of “okay, do I keep it or not” is not up for discussion, then yes, indeed, many of the tests we do are useless, because they will not influence, let’s say, your decision to keep or abort a soul that chose you to be its mother.

So, why is blood and blood sampling a major producer of stress? First of all, most of the women I know have a fear of needles, a needle phobia—I count myself among them—or they do not feel comfortable when going for tests. First of all, another thing happens. When we go, psychologically and emotionally speaking, to analyze the blood that flows through our veins, meaning our life, we are actually analyzing our psychological state and, let’s say, our joy and zest for life. Because the better we are, the more normal and beautiful our blood values will be. The more upset, pessimistic, and sad we are, the more the blood will change. And this can be seen in the analyses.

For example, the blood of a sad, worried, pessimistic woman will be thicker. And yes, she will be, let’s say, suspected of the “trendy” disease. It’s called the “trendy” disease, thrombophilia in pregnancy. Why? Because due to the mother’s emotional state, her blood changes and thickens. And then, of course, we will have analyses depending on our emotional state. Now, it’s not just the stress of going and having your blood analyzed. It’s also the stress that you start to doubt yourself, your body, your ability to be alive and to live with zest and joy. And this, of course, produces changes. What we analyze when we take blood is exactly the state at the minute and second we take the blood. So, if I go with fear, if I go with anxiety, if I go with doubt to these tests, my blood will change instantly. It’s not that it will change in three days. It changes instantly depending on my inner state.

So, I go with fear already because I have a needle phobia. Of course, my blood will not be as usual. When we analyze something, we analyze exactly the second we took that liquid from our body, and it will no longer be alive, but rather… I don’t know, something to be analyzed. So, besides taking this stress with us of analyzing our blood, the biggest stress for a future mother is waiting for the results. During that time of waiting for the results, a lot happens psychologically. After all, the woman is pregnant and in her psyche there are all the doubts, all the insecurities that surface. From childhood, we know that when we are pregnant, we dream more intensely, more, stranger things, things we haven’t dreamed in a long time. Fears are activated. So, a lot happens at the moment and during the time a woman who has done her tests, being pregnant, waits for the results.

Well, let’s see what those tests are that doctors indicate. Why? Because, even if you think, well, it’s not an industry, nobody profits from this, you are mistaken. Every doctor who recommends a lab gets a percentage there. Didn’t you know? Ask any doctor, if they are honest. Ask any agent who works for Big Pharma or works for this medical industry, because it is an industry, no matter how much we want to sugarcoat it and dress it up nicely, it is an industry, and the pregnant woman is, let’s say, a walking thing that can make a lot of money. During pregnancy, a woman generates more money than at birth, because for nine months, the more fear you put in the heart of a pregnant woman, since it’s about her child, a new responsibility, she will pump money into the system to do tens of thousands of tests. And now there is genetic testing for spinal muscular atrophy before pregnancy. If they caught you and you went before. Yes? Then there is genetic testing for detecting thrombophilia. I already told you why blood can change and why it usually thickens. And if you were suspected—because in Romania all pregnant women are suspected of thrombophilia—please, think about when the analyses were really valid and not made up.

Because there are many cases where you do a test at one lab and at another lab, at the same time or at least on the same day, and you will get totally opposite results or results that have nothing to do with each other, as if they were two different people. So, think about what saddened you, what upset you. Maybe you didn’t get pregnant. Already the stress of not getting pregnant causes major conflicts in a woman, and the woman from the start, by her very nature, is designed to be able to give birth. When a woman lives the conflict of not being able to procreate, from that moment there is a great sadness and a great sense of failure in her soul. And, of course, she blames herself for this. And this produces major changes at the psychological level and, of course, major changes at the physical level.

Well, then we have Panorama blood tests, the Harmony blood test. All these tests that cost a lot of money and analyze the fetus’s DNA to identify chromosomal abnormalities from the ninth week of pregnancy. Now, these tests, mmm, abalgications, which are analyzed balgic sanie iesim laersi pvc locbene.ro and of the disorders delapkingsum—they will tell you that yes, genetically you are to blame for what abnormalities your child might have or not. I have also said, if you are absolutely convinced that souls choose their parents and it is not by chance that a certain kind of soul comes to us and incarnates in our family, then yes, these tests are clearly useless, because they will not influence, let’s say, your decision to keep this gift or to say no. I want another lottery ticket and I want to play the lottery again. Yes, unfortunately, what I am telling you sounds sad, but women are so disconnected from themselves that they are capable of making such decisions when they think that if this one is not good, we’ll make another one. It’s not really like that. And this lottery game of drawing another ticket is not what should happen, because no. All these things cause suffering. A woman who decides to abort because she found out that something might happen or something might be wrong, might regret that decision for a lifetime, and the guilt may eat at her for a long time.

That is, these nocebo psychological effects are not discussed and are too little brought to light, especially in such a vulnerable period of pregnancy. Well, we also have the first trimester screening or B. The test that is done between weeks eleven and fourteen of pregnancy, to identify chromosomal abnormalities such as Down syndrome. We will talk more about these syndromes and these abnormalities. I have met not only children with Down syndrome, who are adorable, but also adults. Besides the fact that yes, indeed, they have a visible handicap, they are such loving beings that I can’t figure out who we are to decide if they should live or not. As long as a soul decides to incarnate, regardless of the form, it’s as if we restrict the coming of these souls, saying if you don’t have blue eyes and you’re not blonde, you can’t come. It’s absurd to do such a thing, because you are not the one who sorts here. You are the one who receives.

And everyone receives in life what they need to experience. A child with Down syndrome has the right to life, just as a child who is born perfectly healthy does. But yes, look, life is full of surprises. How many of us don’t know people who, at some point, suddenly got sick and suffered their whole lives from certain things? It is also a choice of the soul to go through certain, let’s say, illnesses, malformations, handicaps, because we come here to experience. And I don’t think we have the right to say you come, you don’t come, you come, you don’t come. At least that’s what I believe.

Well, we also have the triple test or second trimester prenatal screening, which is done in the second trimester. Alpha-fetoprotein, beta human chorionic gonadotropin, and estrogen are analyzed—every time I get tongue-tied reading these tests. The purpose of these tests is to identify both chromosomal abnormalities and neural tube defects in the fetus between weeks fifteen and twenty of pregnancy. So we analyze, re-analyze, and in the end, many women who received such diagnoses gave birth to healthy children. And then you wonder, is it worth tormenting yourself, worrying for an entire pregnancy, influencing your child’s psyche with your states of depression, only to find out in the end that everything is fine? Or yes, there is also the second option, where there are women who made that decision. And there is nothing to condemn. Please don’t misunderstand me. There is nothing to condemn if you don’t want such a thing, because no one consciously wants it. But how can you not love a being who chose you and who grows in your womb? And yes, it’s not at all easy to make such a decision. So you decide what you want to be done to you or your child, and you say how far it goes.

And then, of course, there are blood tests in the first, second, and third trimesters, as if something could change from something bad to something good or vice versa. It doesn’t even matter anymore. There are CBC, blood group, Rh, blood sugar, AST, ALT, urea, creatinine, urine summary and sediment exam, urine culture, VDRL, HIV, HBsAg, HCV. Anyway, it doesn’t make sense to burden you. What bothers me, though, is how it is possible that we, people, we, women, yes, can live just fine without tens of thousands of tests. At least that’s how I lived. I think the only blood test I ever had was at fourteen, when I had to get my ID and we had to determine my blood group. There was absolutely no trend, as there is now, to go, prick your child, take blood, see how it is. Things were much simpler. Ironically, people were much healthier. People now prick themselves, analyze and re-analyze themselves, and are not healthier than many years ago. So I don’t see an improvement in our quality of life through this obsessive analysis. And you should know there are many doctors who agree with me and who have written books and, of course, have been stigmatized for not supporting an entire system of analyses and re-analyses. Even Dr. Mendelsohn, who was somehow, I think they even revoked his medical license at some point, for the books he wrote about malpractice in obstetrics, about malpractice in general, about how doctors manage to manipulate patients by recommending a lot of tests or a lot of medication for simple illnesses that can be treated easily at home.

He even says that he doesn’t see why a person who feels well and has no symptoms should go for, let’s say, annual tests or once every two, three, five years. Because even this idea, that we go to analyze ourselves because maybe, maybe we’ll find something, as long as we live, let’s say, consciously and are aware of the conflicts our mind generates and which in turn generate imbalances in the body and dysfunctions of our organs or body functions. When we take care of our psyche and our emotions, there is no such fear, “Oh my! Maybe something happened to me in the last three years.” If nothing has bothered you and your body hasn’t drawn your attention that something isn’t working, I don’t see why now, suddenly, because you are pregnant and carrying a baby in your womb, you suddenly have to go analyze and re-analyze yourself.

What I want to tell you now is that all these screening tests—screening, meaning a kind of, yes, analysis—do not give a definitive diagnosis for the mentioned conditions, but only bring to the forefront a level of risk that maybe, maybe the baby will develop one of these, let’s say, risks. But if you look at it statistically, those risks are minimal. To help you understand something: for example, the same test is done on a pregnant woman, but the result will depend greatly on her age. The older she is, let’s say, over thirty or thirty-five, depending, the higher the so-called risk, but not real, just on paper, statistically. That is, if a woman gets pregnant at forty-five, clearly we don’t give birth naturally. It’s full of risk. Oh, the child, oh, must be analyzed. Even though a woman is able to give birth to a perfectly healthy child until she is no longer able to get pregnant, meaning when she enters menopause. Very simple. Our body does not deteriorate, of course, depending on how we take care of it, but our body, because of age, does not deteriorate or lose its function to host, grow, give birth, and feed a child or to be able to care for a child.

Yes, a woman, even at a certain age, is much more responsible, much more mature, much more, let’s say, prepared to have a child than when, let’s say, if we remember when we were younger, we were much less prepared for certain things in life.

Well, let’s see what other tests you might hear about, which are also producers of stress and emotional conflicts and, of course, are most often useless. The vaginal secretion exam is an exam that only tells you how you are and how your vagina is. And the vaginal secretions you analyze only show your emotional state regarding your most intimate place. If, for example, you happen to suffer from candidiasis during pregnancy, what is your body telling you? It changes its pH and produces that candida. Because at some point you felt invaded, and this invasion does not have to be with an invader or a rape. It can also be just the fact that when you made love with your partner, you actually didn’t want to and would have rather said no than yes. But you said yes, because, well, just to do it. Exactly those moments when you live emotional conflicts inside, even if you don’t say them, even if you love your partner, even if it seems normal or weird to have those thoughts, those thoughts created a conflict. And that conflict created the candidiasis because you felt invaded in your personal space, when you should have said no easily, without feeling guilty or accused that, oh my, I said no. What will he say? Will he say I don’t love him anymore? Will he say I don’t want him anymore? That’s what it’s about. So these exams actually attest to how active or inactive certain conflicts are in your mind. Because, you see, our mind generates conflicts, and conflicts generate diagnoses or, as I said, dysfunctions of our organs or body functions.

The Pap smear is actually contraindicated in pregnancy, so you should not do it. It is not done in pregnancy. Don’t irritate your cervix, don’t create conflicts for yourself, because that’s not what it’s about. Pregnancy came as a kind of crowning of the woman in her most beautiful period of life, when she can exercise her role of procreation. We should not feel frightened, dehumanized, tested. It’s as if we no longer trust anything that happens in us, in us, as women, but have to go for tests as if to a car service.

Well, we also have screening for group B streptococcus. Here, of course, allopathic medicine claims there is a risk of urinary infection in pregnancy or other early infections. Of course, because that’s what allopathic medicine considers, you will be indicated an intravenous antibiotic every four hours during labor or two hours before birth. That’s in the happy cases. Of course, there are also doctors who recommend antibiotics already during pregnancy, without considering how harmful antibiotics are, which are anti-life, which not only, let’s say, destroy that streptococcus, but attack many other systems and beneficial bacteria in the body. So, please, think twice or seven times before easily choosing the antibiotics prescribed like candy. They fall into the same category as other medications prescribed very easily in Romania, even though they are contraindicated in pregnancy, because it’s written in the leaflet.

So, this screening for this streptococcus that we all carry is, let’s say, a kind of must, because that’s what is said. But even if you have it, it can… Here you have to decide, okay, how afraid am I of my body and of my bacteria that inhabit me and make this body function. Yes, I explain more about the causes of diseases, about emotions, about all these things in many courses and videos I have recorded in this course. So, please, continue to watch, because you will find out many things.

The non-stress test or Doppler or ultrasound is one of the routine things recommended to any pregnant woman. Although it has been too little studied, generally women know too little about the risks to which they expose the baby in the womb when they go for ultrasounds. After the 28th week of pregnancy, there are evaluations that attest to the fetus’s movements, heart rate, which should be between 80 and 160 beats per minute. You can note these values to see where you stand. But, please, don’t make a habit of going for ultrasounds just to listen to the baby’s heartbeat, because they are major producers of stress in the womb.

The urine summary checks for glucose or proteins in the urine. That’s in very rare cases where there are real problems and the woman does not feel well. (laughter) And, as I said before, have you ever asked yourself why you want to test your baby in the womb? Especially now that he chose you to be his mother in this existence? Look at his smile. Do you think he feels good when you keep doubting at every test, every analysis, and wonder whether you should abort or keep him? At that moment, even your natural attachment to this child is disrupted. If you know or knew that you are carrying a child you might have to abort, because you will find out something at some point, as you are told, you will try to distance yourself from this child and that rupture will occur, and that child will not find the connection to you and will come with major traumas. Because no woman can make such a decision without first wanting to distance herself and find a way not to suffer so much. And when we don’t want to attach, what do we do? We distance ourselves. And the child who comes into a new world, to new parents, to unknown people, needs exactly this—attachment.

So, either you attach normally, naturally, and stop doubting yourself and your child so much, or you keep your distance and disrupt the whole process and yes, everyone copes as best they can. The child will have serious attachment problems in relationships, in all kinds of relationships, not just the parent-child relationship, in romantic relationships, in human relationships with others. So, an extraordinary disruption is created. This is not how it should happen. Our biology does not work on such bases. That’s why I want you to ask yourself why you keep testing him. Let him be. He’s there, he came, he chose you out of 7 billion. What could he do? I mean, we trust that this child chose us, but we don’t trust that his choice was good. I mean, if he chose us, why do we have to reject him? That’s it, he chose us, no matter how he comes. It’s like wanting him with blue eyes and he comes with brown eyes. What are you going to do, not look at him? You’ll adore him, because it really doesn’t matter. Does it matter if he’s a girl or a boy? Hmm. Half the planet, no, three-quarters of this planet is intimidated and traumatized for life because they didn’t turn out as they were supposed to. I was supposed to be a boy, my husband was supposed to be a girl. Yes, what are we talking about? Because our parents had unfulfilled dreams or unpleasant childhood memories, in which they were rejected because, in turn, their parents thought it was hard to have a girl. Poor thing, how much she will suffer! That’s what I heard all my childhood. Better to be a boy, dear, you don’t suffer as much. All these nonsense we received as a gift. Why? Not because our parents thought they were nonsense? Because that’s how they were taught and really believed it was true. So, let’s stop judging and accept what happens and receive this child with love, because that’s what it’s about.

And now ask your heart, ask your heart, not your mind. Do I trust my child? What did your heart answer? That you trust your child, right? The rest is the mind. The heart tells you to trust. How long have you waited for the miracle in your life to now not be satisfied or not trust the choice your child made? Look, I recommend a book. A book that will change your vision about what nonsense, how children choose you. Maybe you didn’t know. It’s understandable, I didn’t know many things either and I read, found out, learned, experienced. There is so much evidence. You just have to be open to want to find out. Read Wayne Dyer’s book, “Memories of Heaven.” It’s an absolutely wonderful book, in which children tell how they chose their parents. The book is delightful. It might totally change your vision from now on. So, trust your child and listen to your heart’s answer and trust, because he knows he chose you well.

Do you accept your child in the womb? Just as you assume as a mother that you will be there for him even when he is sick, because there will be moments, just as you can accept him as he comes now in pregnancy. Exactly what I was saying earlier. That perfect child everyone wants. He will catch a cold, he will have a fever, maybe he will have a bigger problem and maybe he will have to go to surgery or a hospital once. Or maybe at some point he will have a disease. Yes? Don’t think I’m jinxing it now. But I’m telling you from reality. It’s utopian to think that yours will never have anything. Wonderful! He doesn’t have to. But let’s say now you find or look for a flaw? Well. But if my child, for example, at five years old gets a disease that will lead us to other decisions in life? What will I do? Will I reject him? “Listen, I wanted you healthy.” It’s nonsense, right? Sounds weird. But that’s exactly what we do now with him in the womb. “Listen, I want you healthy.” “Well, leave me alone, I know what I’m doing,” says the child, “I’m creating myself here. I’m in a process of creation. Don’t disturb me, mom, with your thoughts of doubt.” Trust that the child who came knows exactly what to do. And yes, he assumed those three days of flu or, I don’t know, fever, which he will have at one or two, or five, or ten, or thirty. Because he assumed this life, just as we assumed it before we came.

So, do you accept your child in the womb? I say you accept him because you already gave your consent. Subtly, you accepted him before conception. Even if you don’t remember. And now, of course, you will be there as a mother, in any situation. And when he does the biggest nonsense, you will be there for him. Because you are the mother. Because that’s how it happens. Mothers love above all. So accept him as he came now. Just as he will be when he is older. The more you create illusions of “Oh, how will my child be,” and yes, you will love him. If you answered yes to “Do you accept your child,” stop looking for anomalies. These tests and analyses worry you unnecessarily and, as I said before, emotionally separate you from your own child. What this emotional separation does is steal your natural instincts of trust—trust in the process of creation, trust in your own body, and trust in your child. A child, when he feels that his mother does not trust his development, his growth process in the womb, will be very sad.

And I recommend another book. Read “The Nine Stages.” It’s an extraordinary book that tells what a baby knows and how he perceives the nine months in his mother’s womb. Stop thinking about horrible scenarios, because later it’s proven they were completely unrealistic and absurd. And what do they do? Nocebo effect. They produce a nocebo effect, meaning the opposite effect. You no longer enjoy pregnancy, you no longer enjoy anything. You only think about horrible scenarios.

And I want to ask you something. Many times you worried, right? Yes, I worry too. I catch myself worrying and I want to ask you something. After every serious worry you had, how many times was the outcome totally different? Every time? Yes. Every time. And for me. Every time I worried, I realized I worried for nothing. Usually, things were totally different. They happened totally differently, yes? And it really wasn’t the case, because worrying doesn’t help you. Why should you… Yes, you will spend some time thinking about what to do, but that doesn’t justify ruining your life before those, let’s say, real worries appear, not worries from our head.

Tests and analyses that break you down psychologically. Yes, unfortunately, tests done in the lab indicated by the doctor are exactly the same reward system as with the prescription of certain medications. Just as, look, doctors prescribe certain medications and not others to go tai-tai in Hawaii, as I say, to all sorts of luxury conferences, where if you know and have acquaintances who can tell you, you’ll realize what kind of reward system exists there. That is, if you nicely prescribe the medications our company represents, our company will take you to luxury locations you would probably never reach, will present you with wonderful shows, with total indulgence in food, whatever you want, only if you make the percentage required to support this industry. That’s how it works. Don’t believe me? Look, suddenly, I have nothing against anyone, yes, don’t get me wrong, go to a doctor’s office and during a day count how many medical representatives were at the door, how long they stayed, and you’ll never find out what the discussions are. But if you have someone who works in this industry, just ask them a few questions and they will confirm everything I’m telling you. I had the opportunity to see up close how the system works and I can’t lie to you. Why would I lie to you? What interest would I have to lie to you? You already bought the course, I can’t make you buy medicines anymore, whereas the system can easily convince you to buy medicines because you need them, because they save you. Without telling you about emotions, without telling you how diseases are generated, how conflicts appear, yes, without telling you all these things. So do your own research and find out why at those labs indicated by the doctor, because the others don’t have good reagents, that’s what I hear every time, the results might be inconclusive. Why? Well, so you repeat them, at your own expense, because they won’t repeat them for you. So, analyses done at other labs, with absolutely contradictory results, are commonplace. There was even a time on a well-known national TV station. They did a test and took beer and apple juice for analysis. And they were very sick. Both the beer and the apple juice. And with quite antagonistic results from one lab to another. We wonder, and I know many cases, especially since I receive hundreds of messages daily from women who tell me all sorts of problems that appeared because of tests and analyses, and this clearly attests to what I’m telling you. There is at least one publicized scandal related to the veracity of lab analyses. So I’m not saying “Let’s not trust anything anymore,” but please, be cautious. Don’t take everything you hear to heart, because someone might just want to manipulate you to make you think you have a problem. What problem? That you’re pregnant? That’s not a problem. But the system wants to invent problems so you go get checked. How? Well, they make more money off you than if you just went for the birth. Does that make sense? I hope so. Don’t believe me? No problem. I actually hope you don’t believe me and that you go find out. You might be surprised.

And now, yes, I know. These images have an emotional impact, but I wanted to show you anyway, if you’re still not sure. Do these analyses help you decide to terminate the pregnancy or keep the child? Ask yourself how far you would go. The baby lost at eleven weeks. The baby lost at twenty-nine weeks. How far would you go? Which of the analyses would convince you to go and terminate the pregnancy? Yes, it’s a tough question, I know. I apologize for these emotionally impactful images. But it’s important to realize how responsible we are for what happens in our lives.

And now, regarding these wonderful children who, yes, have Down syndrome or are on the autism spectrum—who gives or takes away the right to life from these brave souls? Because, believe me, a soul who assumes such a life, with a huge psychological handicap, of not being like the rest, that is a brave soul. That is a soul who comes to have this experience not just for himself, but so that we, all the others who will interact with this wonderful soul, can revisit our attitude and the lesson they will spread around them. Do you know what the lesson is? The lesson of unconditional love. I love you even because you have Down syndrome. Because you are a human. Because you are a soul. I love you even if you behave differently. And, let’s say, you suffer from autism. I love you anyway. Because you are a brave soul. And because you are a human. You are human. We are not robots. We are not equal. We are so different. I have met so many people. I have met people who, for example, were missing a finger or their hand was not perfect, it was fused. So what? Now, nowadays, such humans are aborted because they don’t have five fingers? Well, but they have a heart, they have a soul.

He has a goal in this life. Successful people. Right? Do you remember Nick Vujicic, that guy who had no arms and legs? He became very successful, an influencer. Yes. A man who shows you that it’s possible. Let’s talk about invasive and dangerous tests and analyses for the baby in the womb. So far, I have talked about the Nocebo effect of these tests on the mother’s psyche. Now I want to talk about what the baby feels, what the threat to him is. Yes? These threats, these invasive and dangerous tests for the baby in the womb, affect the harmonious development and growth of the fetus exactly during pregnancy.

And now, transvaginal ultrasounds. Of course, if you went for an ultrasound in the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, they introduced that transvaginal ultrasound probe. It is the most dangerous because, with the pregnancy being so early, they need to insert this transvaginal probe into the vagina to see anything. Think about it, that embryo isn’t even the size of a grain of rice. So yes, they need something powerful. The effects are disastrous. Please also watch the lessons about ultrasounds, because there I will show you that they are not to be taken lightly, as is commonly believed, especially in Romania, and that many women admit that after such ultrasounds, they lost their pregnancy.

The nuchal translucency ultrasound. Another madness. Oh, we have to see if the nuchal translucency, meaning this part of the spine here at the neck, has certain measurements, so we can say whether or not there is Down syndrome. Oh, how many children I know who are perfectly fine and whose nuchal translucency was, oh yes, and they scared the mother for nothing. Then, the fetal morphology scans for each trimester.

Fifteen years ago, there was only one fetal morphology scan, done only in ultra-special cases, in the second trimester. Now, each trimester has its own fetal morphology scan. Women have no idea what these fetal morphology scans mean. What do they involve? I will tell you about this in the course about ultrasounds.

Doppler ultrasound scans. Doppler is the strongest ultrasound emission and this most disrupts fetal development. So avoid Dopplers, yes, because it’s a baby in the womb. It’s not your adult heart that needs to be listened to with Doppler, right?

The routine non-stress test. Again, another madness. We keep listening to the baby to see if there might be a problem. Just leave him alone, give him peace. The baby is fine.

Ultrasound during pregnancy, yes? You should know that it was never and will never be about cute pictures of the baby in the belly. First of all, it disrupts the baby so much that disasters can happen. And if that doesn’t happen, disasters can occur at the chromosomal level, because we catch and surprise the baby in the most intense period of development. That’s why, for example, in England and in civilized countries, let’s say, ultrasounds are only done after the twelfth week of pregnancy. And Romanian women who are in England are very upset with the doctors there because no one does the ultrasounds that their friends in Romania get. But that’s not normal. We are brainwashed to think we need to do seven thousand ultrasounds. Here, ultrasounds are done once a month. What nonsense is that? When you have no problem, what are you looking for? Why do you keep disturbing the baby? Leave him, give him peace. I’ve said it many times. And by the way, there is no mandatory ultrasound, but you have every right to ask for details, to ask the doctor who won’t see you if you haven’t done I don’t know how many ultrasounds or morphologies.

Please, ask him what he wants to find out with this ultrasound. Please, ask him what you can do with a diagnosis that might be autism spectrum disorder or, I don’t know, Down syndrome. Ask him if, besides worrying you unnecessarily, you can do anything practical? Because most things are done after the baby is born. Very few interventions are done in utero. Very few. In Romania, we have only one doctor who can do such interventions, and the success rate is not, I don’t know what. Because no one wants to risk it. Because when you have a little human in full development, and there is no chart showing that on day 7 this happens, on day 28 that happens. You have no way of knowing what will develop next, at what pace. If you saw something that now seems like an anomaly, maybe in two days it resolves because it wasn’t its turn yet. So we are talking about a totally unknown subject. Doctors are still taking notes about the development of the embryo in a woman’s womb.

And I want to ask you one more thing. Please ask how reliable the result given by the ultrasound is. Because do you know how reliable it is? Only thirty percent. Forty percent have officially admitted. So not even fifty-fifty. So we don’t have fifty percent, it might be yes or no. It’s thirty percent yes. Meaning seventy percent it might not be as the result says. How does that help you? And now ask your doctor: “Doctor, are there any other methods or options to find out what you’re interested in? What are you interested in, doctor, about my child? Are you interested to see if he’s okay? Well, if I’m going to keep him anyway, how does that help you? Is it your child? If it’s yours, you can analyze him as much as you want. But this one is mine, he stays. I won’t change him, I won’t give him away, I won’t send him back.” Of course. Romania is the exception to the rule. As I was saying, in any country in Europe or America, only two, maximum three ultrasounds are done during a pregnancy.

The first ultrasound is done after twelve, fourteen weeks, the second is done at the end of the pregnancy, and the third is only done if there is a well-founded medical necessity. The fact that you go to the doctor every month or every two weeks does not mean there is a medical necessity and not just a financial one, at least in our country. In our country, think about it, eighty percent of C-sections are done because the doctor wants it, not because there is a medical indication, and they are not required to write tens of reports to explain why they opted for a C-section and didn’t let the woman give birth naturally.

And now ask yourself what the ultrasound does to the psyche of a mother. Instead of deepening the bond between mother and child, it interrupts it. Why? The woman starts to distance herself. If there’s something wrong, how do I position myself? And then what does she do? She distances herself, the bond is interrupted, a lot of anxiety and worry is created. And this is how a woman spends her pregnancy, instead of enjoying it, because it robs the mother of the experience of joy during pregnancy.

How does this help? Well, we are programming our child with sadness, adrenaline, and fear. That’s what we do for nine months. When he chose you, he didn’t choose to come to a sad mother. He chose you for the joy of living, for the life you have, for the way you are, for everything you are. He didn’t choose to come to a mother who cries throughout the pregnancy. And the child will say: “Mom, don’t you see that I’m fine?” And the mother will say: “No, I don’t see that you’re fine. I worry because so many people told me that I have, that, that.” That’s not what it’s about. Unfortunately.

Invasive and dangerous tests for the baby in the womb. Yes! They can affect the life, survival, and development of the fetus in the womb. And this absolutely brilliant test... and a fantastic stress producer is amniocentesis, which, yes, is not even one hundred percent accurate. Meaning we do it to worry even more, to find out who knows what. Ten years ago, amniocentesis was only done for women over thirty-five, let’s say, to find anomalies. Now, I’ve heard it’s recommended at twenty, twenty-five. Girls, stop!

Amniocentesis, first of all, has a very high rate of causing the baby to leave, to decide to leave. That long needle you see there will be inserted into your belly to extract some amniotic fluid from the baby’s habitat. Many babies... When that needle is inserted, since they are always moving, they can get pricked by that needle. That’s why they do that ultrasound or sonogram, to make sure the baby isn’t nearby. But you can’t control that.

Plus, this test doesn’t give you more accuracy. Yes? Here’s how that long needle—I think you can see my mouse—is inserted into the womb, and the baby is not in a pool where he has room to swim. The baby is very cramped in there. Here’s a nice image, with how much amniotic fluid there is and how far it is from the baby. The percentage is quite high of babies who have come out with partial paralysis because of being pricked by the needle. Yes, partial paralysis that remains because he was pricked and tensed up and stayed that way. So yes, there are many stories.

So amniocentesis is one of the most dangerous tests performed, which directly affects the fetus, because it invasively threatens his sacred habitat, with the risk of spontaneous abortion. That’s why it’s not recommended. Then there’s chorionic villus sampling, if you have nothing better to do and the doctor sees you can handle it, then you’ll be subjected to a procedure done between the eleventh and fourteenth week of pregnancy, which involves either inserting a catheter through your cervix or inserting a needle through the abdomen like in amniocentesis, and involves collecting a small fragment of the placenta. Again, we have nothing better to do, so let’s see if the placenta is good, let’s see if the baby is good, let’s see if the fluid is good.

Then, the genetic test for non-syndromic genetic deafness. Another nonsense. What, people who can’t hear aren’t good? Haven’t you met deaf people? There are many. Okay, they lack a sense. Does that mean they’re not people? This genetic test is done starting at the sixteenth week and involves collecting amniotic fluid, which, of course, may or may not be accurate.

Then we have the chromosomal analysis or fetal karyotype. Doctors claim that the risk of chromosomal diseases in children increases as the mother ages. Really? So if I have a child at forty-five, my child must be sick? No, not at all. But, well, they have to say something. What will they do? They will analyze the forty-six chromosomes in the amniotic fluid. How is the amniotic fluid extracted? You understood, you saw, you got it. Yes? It’s not a nice thing at all. And by the way, it hurts. Yes? I really don’t think you want to stick a needle that big in your belly.

Amniocentesis will tell you if you have genetic diseases such as sickle cell anemia, cystic fibrosis, if there are neural tube defects, spina bifida, anencephaly. Almost all these chromosomal anomalies like Down syndrome, Edwards, Klinefelter, Turner. It has an accuracy for these diseases of over ninety-nine percent, according to doctors.

Excess amniotic fluid. Polyhydramnios. For determining fetal lung maturity, again. The fetal lungs develop perfectly as long as the fetus is not taken out of the womb too early. Trisomy 21, Patau syndrome or Trisomy 13, Klinefelter syndrome, Turner syndrome, Jacobs syndrome, Triploidy, Triple X syndrome, Angelman syndrome, Prader Willi syndrome, etc. As many as you want. Good. What do we do with these syndromes? Do we put them in a box and leave them there? Or do we put them in our hearts and minds? You guessed it! The results of all these analyses and tests are correlated with the mother’s age. So, the older we are, the higher our blood pressure, the more weight we have, the more we are predisposed or not to diabetes, and, of course, combined with many other values, the risk is calculated. The risk, but not the probability. The risk, meaning not the possibility of having a child, but the risk of having a baby who faces chromosomal anomalies. And if, by the way, they say you have chromosomal anomalies, they’ll say: “Well, it’s your genes! Genetically, you’re a mess!”

And what do we do? Again, we blame ourselves, again... It’s a carousel of emotions that no one can handle and come out well from. Yes, the results are, of course, classified as positive and negative, but also as probability. For example, I’ll give you an example so you understand what probability means. The probability of one in five thousand for a child to have Down syndrome is considered a positive result if the ratio is equal to or greater than one in three hundred. Yes? So one child, let’s say, out of three hundred. That means one in five thousand. Anyway, don’t get caught up in this because you’ll destroy yourself mentally and live your worst nightmare.

And let’s see, is it expensive to be pregnant in Romania? Yes, if you fall for it, so to speak, yes? But pregnancy can cost two to four times more than giving birth at a private hospital. And a private hospital, where just because you go to the most expensive one doesn’t mean your rights, birth plan, golden hour, and all that will be respected. It doesn’t mean that where it’s expensive, it’s also good. You might be surprised. There are very few hospitals in Romania that will respect your birth plan, golden hour, your wishes, labor rhythm, and other things. And that doesn’t mean they are the most expensive. But yes, you’ll have to do a bit of birth tourism, because, well, that’s how it is. At least we have options.

So a woman who falls victim to these crude maneuvers and manipulations spends two to four times more than a birth at an expensive private hospital. But yes, that’s what happens if you fall for it, as I said. So, if you want to be informed, you’re in the right place, because I tell the truth. The truth that others don’t have the courage to say and that they gloss over and defend, because, what, it feeds them? The system doesn’t feed me, so I will always be honest with you and tell you where to be careful and what to watch out for, yes?

And now let’s see how expensive it is to be pregnant in Romania. I made a total that came to about 900 dollars. For now, yes, the first total. That’s if you let yourself be manipulated and don’t inform yourself beforehand and on your own. Let’s see.

The test for detecting the gene that causes cystic fibrosis is between 120 and 180 dollars. But if the test includes the extended panel, meaning complete sequencing of the CFTR gene, the price can be about 860 dollars. The test for detecting Fragile X syndrome is between 200 and 240 dollars. Thrombophilia profile can range from antithrombin, protein C, protein S, factor V Leiden mutation, factor II mutation, from 100 to 200 dollars. Genetic testing for spinal muscular atrophy, 540 dollars. The test for sequencing the SMN1 gene, 1,040 dollars; the test targeting the SMN1 and SMN2 genes for spinal muscular atrophy, 260 dollars; the Harmony prenatal test, medium, let’s say around 280 dollars, it may have become more expensive, but if it includes not only chromosomes 13, 18, 21, but also fetal sex identification and the panel chosen by the expecting family, the cost of sex chromosome aneuploidies is 620 dollars. If the test is extended for all microdeletions—680 dollars. Second trimester screening—440 dollars. Panorama Basic test—420 dollars. Panorama Basic plus 22Q11 microdeletion—520 dollars, and an extended Panorama test—640 dollars. The genetic test for non-syndromic genetic deafness, blood test—160 dollars. Amniotic fluid-based test—180 dollars. Test targeting the GJB2 gene—220 dollars, and for GJB6—300 dollars. I know you’re bored, but I have to tell you about them. Chorionic villus sampling test—280 dollars. Chromosomal analysis—karyotype in amniotic fluid—150 dollars. Molecular karyotype in amniotic fluid—440 dollars. Triple pregnancy test—40 dollars. Alpha protein test, blood analysis—20 dollars, if it’s amniotic fluid-based—30 dollars. Amniocentesis karyotype—400 dollars with a procedure fee of 160 dollars. Nice, right? About 900 dollars. And another 1,400 dollars without the previous 900 dollars worth of tests.

Hg-Hcg, transvaginal ultrasound—50 dollars. Obstetric consultations—40 dollars, about 10 consultations, so in case you go with their classic approach, yes? The usual blood count, blood sugar, TGO and TGP, VDRL, AntiHIV, HBS, TSH, etc. TORCH profile—70 dollars, that’s another nonsense. TORCH profile, which you’re supposed to do every trimester. Where does this nonsense come from? If you haven’t had problems, why do it three times? Double test—the Pap smear, which I said is absolutely useless. First trimester fetal morphology—60 to 90 dollars. If you have twins, it’s double. Vaginal secretion and cervical culture—30 dollars. Triple test—32 dollars. Okay, you did your tests. Then you have to go pay for a consultation, to have them tell you what you did, yes? So nothing is cheap.

Second trimester fetal morphology increases, because the fetus has grown, and the prices are higher, between 90 and 120 dollars. Genital culture for streptococcus—11 dollars. Third trimester fetal morphology between 90 and 120 dollars. So you reach about 1,400 dollars, meaning about 300 dollars plus 900. You said you didn’t have money for private... for birth. Believe me, you will. Oh, plus, I forgot to mention. Do you want stem cells? Mhm. You pay more. And not only do you pay for them. You take them from your child to give to a bank. And you take more money out of your pocket. It’s mind-blowing.

Please watch the video and lesson about stem cells and placenta, because there is, let’s say, the place for your child’s stem cells, which at birth, when the cord is still pulsing, pass from the placenta into the child’s body. So the first transfer of stem cells happens at birth. So protect your child’s umbilical cord. But more in the lessons that will be about the umbilical cord.

Thank you. I hope I didn’t scare you, and please, make wise decisions and decisions that don’t cause you fear. Yes? That’s the most important thing. See you at the next course.